This is a Jocko podcast number 343 with Echo Charles and me,
Jocko willing. Good evening Echo. Good evening.
If you know the enemy and you know yourself,
you need not fear the result of a hundred battles.
If you know yourself, but not the enemy for every victory gained,
you will also suffer defeat.
If you know neither the enemy nor yourself,
you will succumb in every battle.
Sun Tzu Art of War covered that on podcast 23, by the way,
which is over five years ago, I believe, at this time.
So it's a real common quote, though.
We have to learn from ourselves.
We have to learn our mistakes.
We have to learn our strengths and weaknesses,
but we have to learn about our enemies
and our enemy's strength and weaknesses.
What do we do right?
What do we do wrong?
What do our enemies do right?
What do our enemies do wrong?
And in order to know those things,
we have to study our enemy.
We have to look at that, look at what they're doing.
At least we should.
We should be looking at our enemy.
And in some good times, we, as a nation,
have been able to do that well.
And we have a case here in 1942,
the U.S. Army Intelligence released a classified report
about the Nazis, who they were, what they did right,
what they did wrong, what they had revealed
in their own manuals.
So we got copies of some of the Nazi manuals
about leading troops in combat.
They have interviews or, you know, they had quotes.
They have quotes from people that they talk to,
German officers that they talk to.
And they put this report together.
It was a classified report.
Eventually it was declassified, obviously.
But I got a copy of it to review.
And, you know, at first you think, oh, what, what, what,
you kind of think, my first thoughts were,
oh, this is going to be really interesting
to see these, these totally different viewpoints
on leadership, right?
Then these are Nazis.
These are the most horrible people ever.
Okay, so this is going to be,
they're going to be totally different.
Well, you're going to see that they're actually
not that different.
And you can see much of what they say at a tactical level
is very similar to what any leader is going to say.
And that sounds crazy, right?
Because, and that's why you got to realize,
and I think when we, when we covered, when we covered Mao,
and, and I remember pointing this out,
Mao, when he's talking, when they're talking about
how to win a war, they're talking about,
well, the main, the main case and point is decentralized command.
Because he's talking about, hey, listen,
the troops out on the battlefield got to make adjustments,
they got to make things happen because they know what's best
for their unit at the time.
And yet this same guy that says that about how to win a war says,
oh, but for the government, we're going to centralize everything.
We're going to centralize farming,
and we're going to tell you what to plant and when to plant
and how much to plant, and you're all going to die
because it's not going to work, which is exactly what happened.
So it's a similar thing here where you can see clearly
that there's a huge disconnect between the,
the leadership on the battlefield and then what's going on with the,
with Hitler, the Nazis, and the way that they were thinking,
the way Hitler was thinking.
But some of the stuff is pretty disturbing too.
When you, when you think about how this whole nation was captivated,
and you know, this is something that the plasticity of the human mind
is something I've been talking, I've been talking a lot about it on,
on the Academy and just how people are so gullible.
And it's, they can, if you're not careful,
you can get manipulated very easily.
And there's no greater example of that than,
than the Nazi party in Nazi Germany.
Just manipulation of the brain, people, people, crowd mob mentality,
which we talked about in the underground mob mentality going on,
and if that, well, he's doing it, she's doing it, I guess we're doing it, and let's go.
And then you think about, you think about how, I mean, look at society today.
Look at American society today.
Look at trend that'll go across American society today,
and you'll think, whoa, that's a trend, we can spot it.
But people still do it, right?
People are in the trend, and they're believing it.
Same thing happens with the Nazis.
But here's the thing, you think, have you ever known a 27-year-old person
that got caught up in some trend and kind of went down in some weird way?
Went down.
Went down, yeah, like went, went off, let's say, went,
changed directions pretty radically in their life.
27-year-old human.
Yeah, I mean, yeah.
What about a 32-year-old human?
Yeah.
Okay, now, once somebody's 50 or 60, you ever know someone that's 50 or 60?
No.
It can still happen, but more rare, right?
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, basically, as you get older, you're a little harder to manipulate, it would seem.
It seems that way, yeah.
But then when you start talking about 10, 11, 12-year-olds, these are super pliable brains.
And so when I start talking about the Hitler youth, you're going to be thinking,
you keep that in mind.
Here's a 10-year-old kid, an 11-year-old kid that's getting indoctrinated,
that doesn't know anything else.
Then you can see where that's going to end up.
So the thing about the Third Reich from a military and leadership perspective,
look, there was a lot of them, 13, almost 14 million soldiers in the German army,
and they were efficient.
They were efficient.
And they use, you're going to see, and I don't speak German, obviously,
but the translation, they use that term efficiency a lot,
almost like it's a little bit scary, you know, where it's like, hey, is it,
wouldn't it be more efficient if you only had three kids instead of four?
You know what I'm saying?
Like that kind of scary thing.
So we're going to come across that word efficiency.
And the German military, the Third Reich military,
was very effective and efficient at the beginning of the war.
And many people would, I mean, look at what they did.
They rolled, they steamrolled through Europe very easily.
And a lot of people would say that they continued to keep up a very efficient methodology
until that's when the Nazi generals were running the show.
When you had guys like Rommel that was actually making calls.
Rommel, who by the way, eventually got executed by Hitler.
But he was, you know, he was one of the guys that was running the show.
And the further along the war went, the more Hitler started calling the shots.
But they had some things that were causing them to be so effective early in the war.
You know, they used mission type orders that utilized decentralized command,
not so much a leadership perspective, but they had some really good weapons.
And H. Liddell Hart, who we've covered on this podcast, he, he, here's a quote from him from, from his studies.
On a man for man basis, German ground soldiers consistently inflicted casualties
at about a 50% higher rate than they incurred from the opposing British and American troops
under all circumstances.
This was true when they were attacking and when they were defending,
when they had a local numerical superiority and when, as was usually the case,
they were outnumbered, when they had air superiority and when they did not,
when they won and when they lost.
So they were good at inflicting casualties on American and British troops.
They were better than we were in inflicting casualties on them.
That being said, we had, you know, obviously more numbers and more aggressiveness over an extended period of time.
But that's just one example of the effectiveness of the German military in World War II,
again, especially in the beginning of the war.
And, and there's, there's more points like that, but I don't want to, I don't want to drill down onto that debate
or, or go deeper into that.
But there's no one that's going to say that the early German World War II military was not an extremely effective military force.
And of course, I mean, we have to say that it did fall apart eventually against an incredibly adaptive and brave and smart and capable allied force.
And I would say one of the best things about us Americans is we learned and we adapted.
And I think that's something that maybe, you know, part of our culture is that we are able to do that.
And when we allow ourselves to do that, it's going to be one of the most beneficial things we can do is go, oh, you know what, this isn't working, do something else.
And I would say that the Germans were kind of the opposite.
The further the war went, the less they adapted, the less they changed their, their strategies and their tactics.
And what causes you to not change your strategies and tactics, it's when your ego gets too big.
What causes your ego to get big when you're winning a lot.
So what, just look what happened.
The Germans are winning a bunch.
They don't, they think that everything they're doing is right.
We're losing.
We're like, okay, we got to make adjustments.
The British are saying we got to make adjustments.
So we start making adjustments.
They don't.
We win.
Look, ultimate simplified terms, right?
And I'm not trying to make a historical case.
I'm just trying to review an assessment of some mindsets broadly speaking.
So this report is, is an interesting report.
Again, it's written in 1942 and let's take a look at it.
What can we learn from it?
That's the main thing.
So this is September 17th, 1942.
The, the report is called German military training.
And it comes from the military intelligence service of the war department.
Notice the information summarized here is based on a variety of sources on German manuals,
on technical articles in German military reviews, and above all, on the detailed reports of
United States observers who saw the German army at close range in its work of preparing
for this war and during the first two years of conflict.
That's where it came from.
Introduction.
The bullet, this bulletin proposes to summarize information which will serve three purposes.
One, it will permit a better appreciation of the basis of the German military strength.
The strength of the German army and its early success in this war owe much to two factors,
planning and training.
The Nazi leaders planned this war for years in advance of their attack.
They prepared for it by a system of military training which begins with children of high school age.
The training system was directed by the old professional army.
It depended on effort, thoroughness, and the appre, and the application of old and tested principles
to the means of modern warfare.
As an observer remarks, the Germans believed that by hard work and hard training, they would quote,
save blood later.
And that's almost like a word for word quote from Patton.
This training gave the German army a time advantage over its rivals, although this advantage is being
steadily reduced.
Number two, it will contribute to our knowledge of characteristic German tactics.
Those principles of tactics and leadership which are emphasized in training are inevitably reflected
in the actual conduct of operations.
While this bulletin will make no detailed study of German tactics, it will bring out the main doctrines
which are applied in battle as a result of training.
Number three, it will suggest methods and points of view which may be useful in training U.S. troops.
So like what can we learn from this?
That's what they're saying.
There are many basic similarities between U.S. training doctrines and those of the German army.
Though there are naturally many differences in their use or application, we can learn from the differences
as well as the similarities.
As far as possible, concrete examples have been given and in the appendixes there are detailed illustrations
at some length of certain phases of the German training methods.
So training in preparation for military service.
This is where you start thinking.
This is when you start thinking this is going to be a problem.
If you're watching this, this is from 1934.
If you're watching this from the outside, you got to be thinking yourself.
This is going to be an issue.
Here's what they got going on.
The Nazi government from the start was dedicated to the purpose of war of conquest.
And from 1934 on, the party controlled and directed every aspect of German life to the same.
So right there, if you're looking on the outside, you got to realize we're going to have an issue.
This is like someone that's training, lifting, doing Jiu Jitsu.
Like this whole person's life is for war.
That's what the whole German world was.
The German military leadership followed Klaus Witz for years,
but only under the Nazi regime could his key concept of total war be realized.
The principle that every agency and every individual of a nation must be used in the effort of war.
Nothing is more revealing of Nazi plans and methods than the application of this principle
in a very broad program of military training.
The goal of this program was a large and highly trained army,
but the shaping of this army was not left to the two years of actual military training for conscripts.
From the age of 14, boys were to receive a preparation for military service
which would cover much of the basic training ordinarily given recruits.
So starting at age 14, you're starting to get trained.
At age 14.
So you're getting indoctrinated and you're getting trained at age 14.
In addition, men older than conscript age with or without previous military service
were to be given various types of auxiliary background or refresher training.
It doesn't matter who you are.
If you're not in the military, you're getting military training.
Ages 14 to 60.
The Nazi party through its various branches was mainly responsible for civilian training outside the army proper.
This included due concern for specialized training and skills needed for mechanized warfare.
A national socialist flying corps sponsored instruction in the rudiments of flying and in glider practice.
The national socialist motor corps trained a large reserve of youths in all type of driving for mechanized service
and thus relieved army motor schools of many hours of instruction.
A German article in 1940 claimed that 125,000 men had been given experience in military motorization.
A motor boat corps cooperated with the army and marines to prepare men for water transport operations.
So think about that.
You've got 125,000 men that had been trained to drive vehicles, large vehicles, military type vehicles.
I mean, right now there's only 400,000 men or women in the US army right now.
So think about having 125,000 people that you control that have this skill and they haven't even been trained yet.
You just got them.
And by the way, you've got people that know how to work on the vehicles.
And by the way, you've got a whole bunch of people that know how to fly planes, kids that know how to fly gliders.
The activities of the party are particularly concerned with the indoctrination of all German citizens for war.
The basic ideas in this indoctrination are well known and are reiterated in Hitler's speeches.
The theory of Germany's natural rights, the concept of the master race, the exaltation of the state and leader,
the glorification of war and military virtues.
The schools, press, radio and movies are controlled by the party and support its efforts in every direction by propaganda which has to fear no rival.
The penal code prevents any free discussion in the field of ideas.
Every German household belongs to a local unit organized to carry out the party educational program.
So they're down for the cause.
There's no, you don't know anything else.
Yeah.
And if you think about anything else, you're going to get found out and you're going to get straightened out.
That's what's going on.
A German lieutenant has summoned up this work of indoctrination in his parents' home, in school, in the Hitler youth,
in the subdivisions of the movement, in the shop and in the labor service.
The future army recruit has been bred as a national socialist.
He does not know anything else but allegiance to the national socialist state and the life work of being a German.
There you go.
Training of the German youth, the Hitler youth, at the age of 10.
German boys are brought into the Nazi scheme as members of the Jungvok,
organization and receive their first taste of official indoctrination.
Real shaping for the army begins at 14 when they enter the Hitler youth.
Even before the war, this organization was mainly concerned with preparing boys for the army,
both by instilling military mental attitudes and by military training.
A U.S. observer gives the following description of an exercise of German boys carried out on a Sunday morning.
So this is a Sunday morning.
We got some German boys out there doing some, doing an exercise.
Two groups, one mixed, one of mixed Hitler youth and one of, one of Jungvok.
Thirty strong and the other a similar group of 22 cyclists on 11 bicycles,
marched into Greenwald Forest under the command of a Hitler youth.
This boy appeared to be 15 or 16 years of age.
He halted his command, dressed it with skill and precision,
and announced his mission in a clear and definite manner.
The enemy is reported advancing from the south to the north through Greenwald Forest.
At 7 o'clock he was reported to be entering the, etc., etc.
My mission is to determine at once and report to headquarters the position and activity of advanced units.
My sector is, etc., etc.
It will not be necessary to go into the young commander's estimate of the situation in his orders to his subordinates.
They would have done credit to a professional army officer.
This is a 15-year-old kid.
That boy, still two or three years from active service as a private in the army,
was able to estimate a difficult situation and organize and put in execution a rather complex plan
to carry out his mission on a sector of, sector nearly a thousand meters wide.
This demanded an extended series of rapid-fire orders.
It was evident that he had control of his boys.
A continuous stream of bicycle messengers carried his reports from advanced units to the leader's posts.
He, in turn, sent frequent written messages to some post to his rear.
The observer was frankly amazed at this performance and spent the entire morning with this group to be sure
there was a certain amount of laughing and horseplay among the boys.
This was not repressed, but any lack of attention to duty called forth an immediate and severe rebuke from the leaders.
It was evident that the youngster in charge was on his own.
Some other means must have been provided for checking up on how well that youthful commander had accomplished his mission.
Two of his units, one boy each, failed to follow instructions.
Some were lost and some had difficulty in reporting clearly what they saw.
Some failed in their individual missions, but the boy leader did not fail in his.
He finally recalled all of his units with skill, marched them to the rear,
and very ably praised and criticized individual performance.
On the whole, it was a remarkable demonstration of how German military leadership is developed.
14 or 15 year old leader and then a bunch of 10 year old little Nazi soldiers out there on a Sunday.
Another observer saw Hitler Youth Organization engaged in battalion maneuvers
and reports that their performance would be credible to regular troops.
In 1939, the stormtrooper section of the Nazi party took charge of the Hitler Youth.
And after the start of war, boys 16 to 18 years of age were compelled to take six months of regular pre-military work.
The aim was to provide the army with the largest possible reserve of mentally, physically, and militarily trained young men.
The training includes infantry fundamentals, care and use of weapons, and signaling.
The Hitler Youth has been used in a variety of auxiliary services during the war,
spotting aircraft, performing office work at airports, painting runways, harvesting crops,
tending children in day nurseries, collecting useful junk and trash, soliciting for the winter help,
singing at the hospitals, and putting on entertainment for soldiers at the front.
And obviously as the war went on and they lost more adult males, the Hitler Youth started fighting as well.
But this is where they started off.
The following statistics based on estimate by a U.S. observer suggest the scope of the variety of the Hitler Youth activities.
The National Socialist Flying Corps furnished the Hitler Youth flyers with enough gliders, planes, and instructors to teach 135,000 boys how to fly each year.
The motorized units of the Hitler Youth enrolled 295,000 boys each year.
The National Socialist Party set up 1,300 repair shops for the units, and each year provided them with 5,000 motorcycles.
The Hitler Youth Marines had an annual enrollment of 78,000.
The National Socialist Party supplied the Hitler Youth with 10,000 revolvers a year and a large number of rifles.
Enough rifles were furnished to enable 30,000 outstanding marksmen to participate in rifle matches.
The Hitler Youth had its own firearms school.
During an average 12 months, the Hitler Youth conducted 3,540 official outdoor camps which were attended by 565,000 boys.
That's every 12 months.
That's bigger than the U.S. Army, by the way.
565,000. That's bigger than the U.S. Army.
That's bigger than the United States Marine Corps.
Let me ask you this. What's your current feeling about this? Does this sound like real sinister or does it sound like kind of squared away?
Well, it's both.
Yeah, that's kind of why I asked.
Because the part of me is kind of like, well, just because it's overshadowed by the fact that it's the Nazis.
It's like, oh my gosh, this seems real sinister. But you get that part away.
Like, what, if it was like for something good, it's kind of like that's a squared away group right there.
But that much preparation from that early on, that many capable people starting from that early, that's kind of solid.
Like, you could apply that concept to some good things and that might help us.
Yeah. Well, unfortunately for you, that little part about them being Nazis is a real friggin' problem.
It's a big deal.
It's a real problem. But there's a whole bunch of things going on there.
Just the fact that their foresight is so strong that they're going, hey, look, we're going to be fighting a war in X numbers.
We need people that can work on vehicles. We need people that can fly planes. We need people that can drive vehicles.
We need people that can fight. We need people that can shoot well.
Like, they're just covering all the bases.
Yeah. And obviously the part that's very glaring, besides the fact that they're Nazis, is how they're forced.
Like, the use of fort where they have to do it. And if you even think about other stuff, that's a violation.
Yeah.
And we'd have to, I'd have to do some more research on this, but I can tell you from what I know, the term forced is not like a great term to use.
Because everyone was so swept up in the movement that it was more like, that's like saying during World War II in America, you know, Americans were forced to start a victory garden.
You know what a victory garden is? Victory gardens where you go out in your yard and you plant tomatoes and carrots for yourself so you didn't have to get stuff from the store.
So everyone didn't need to take supplies away from the soldiers.
Well, you didn't get forced to do that. You did that because that's what we were doing to help out.
Yeah, yeah, okay.
So when you see like the young Hitler youth, they're not like being dragged away to camp.
No, they're fired up to go. And that's what we're doing. And that's what they've been told.
And they're also getting told like, well, this is what we do. And this is what makes us better than everyone else.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, you're right. That is, that is there still seems sinister.
Oh, it's 100% sinister.
But yeah, it is different because the ultimate purpose is we're going to take over the world.
Yeah.
The last part there, it says in one year, 6 million German boys participated in sports events organized by the Hitler Youth Office.
Next section is labor service at the age of 18, German boys entered a, entered a compulsory labor service for a six month term.
The labor service work gave them excellent conditioning and hardening.
Furthermore, it accustomed men to living in groups under military discipline.
And again, you know what? This is what's interesting about the military.
That stuff brings you together and makes you feel good and makes you a better person.
And it makes you bond with your friends. You want to want to get people together.
You want to want to people to bond, put make them do hard stuff together.
That's literally how you make people bond shared suffering.
So we're going to go out, we're going to work really hard in the fields.
And at the end of the day, we're going to come back and we're going to have meals together.
And we're going to go out and do the next thing, the same thing the next day.
And people that work hard are going to be rewarded.
And people that slack off are going to be cast out.
So you see what I'm saying here.
This is like a huge unifying thing.
It's not that it's not forced labor like, oh, God, they're going to put no.
Oh, here's your chance.
Hey, you're going to get to go to get to go to the the the labor service.
Oh, you're old enough to do labor service now.
It's going to be great.
With the outbreak of the war, most of the male labor service units were transferred to the armed forces to serve as construction companies.
And the size of the units were increased from 200 to 400 in some cases, 600.
On December 20, 1939, a law ordered that normal labor service for men was to continue despite the special war work of the construction companies.
The labor service youths performed miscellaneous tasks in rear areas being kept out of combat areas as much as possible.
And also says generally the girls branch performs none of these duties except pertaining to agriculture.
They work in factories and do other types of work on the home front.
So the females were going into this too.
But the males were cultivating farms in occupied areas, doing agricultural work in Germany, wherever there are labor shortages, constructing and maintaining important highways,
constructing and improving fortifications, bridges and airports, salvaging equipment, munitions and material and battle areas, policing battlefields, performing century duty in occupied areas,
camouflaging and sandbagging military establishments and assisting in the transportation of food ammunition and fuel during rapid military advances.
So they're basically just full combat support.
And where does this end up?
Here's the conclusion.
When German youths at 19 were inducted for military service, most of them had already had the equivalent of basic military training works,
where an excellent physical condition and had been indoctrinated both with Nazi ideology and military attitudes.
As a result, their training period as conscripts could move very rapidly through preliminary stages.
In two or three months, the conscripts could take part in maneuvers involving divisions or armies because of the work done by the Hitler Youth and the Labor Service.
The two-year training in the army could advance much more rapidly and effectively.
So that's a brilliant plan.
Hey, when people are finally ready to serve at 19, we're already going to have them almost completely trained up.
They're going to be almost completely trained up.
We're going to have to waste, I mean, Marine Corps bootcamp is 13 weeks, and then you go to the School of Infantry.
The army bootcamp is, I don't know, eight weeks, and then you go to AIT, the Army Infantry Training.
So it's going to take some time.
It's going to take four, five, six months to get someone ready to fight.
They're cutting two, three, four months out of that program, which is a big deal.
Furthermore, German boys had received good opportunity to practice and develop qualities of leadership,
and officer material was already clearly marked out by the time they reached military age.
So they're looking for leaders.
Next section, work of the essay, the stormtroopers, the brown shirts, which is the Nazi paramilitary wing.
One of the most active branches of the Nazi party, the essay, had particular responsibility and connection with the Hitler youth.
In addition, the essay performed important functions in giving a certain amount of military training to older civilians both within and outside its own ranks.
The essay as a military reserve, when the Nazi party was rising to power, the essay and the elite guard, the SS, was in effect a private army of Hitler.
When he seized control of the state, the essay was gradually merged into the framework of the military system and became more closely connected with the regular army.
By 1935, more than 100 divisions called brigade of essay troops had been organized, including men over 45 years old.
The regiments were named after their old pre-versaille units and carried on their traditions.
Only a few units were technically part of the armed forces, and the main function of the essay was to provide continuous and effective military training
for a large mass of civilian populace outside the regular two-year service conscripts in the regular army.
By 1939, the essay had been organized to provide specialist training in such lines as cavalry, signaling, engineers, medical service, and navy.
One of its important jobs was given to military training of men over 21 who had not received any training in the pre-Hitler years when Germany's army had been restricted to a small standing army.
The essay gave a coveted sports medal on a basis which shows how very well everything in their program was pointed toward military service.
The examinations for this medal include, aside from running and swimming tests, rifle shooting, camouflage, hand grenade throwing, marching 25 kilometers with a 25-pound pack, and a 200-meter dash in gas mask, etc.
By 1939, this sports medal had been acquired by 800,000 men outside the essay ranks.
This is total war and we're all, that's what we're doing.
It's crazy to think as you watch World War II unfold that Hitler was able to push as hard as he did and get away with as much as he did without somebody going, hey, bro, you're done.
You can't do this anymore.
An important aspect of the essay, an important aspect of the essay control of reservists was the fact that all these men would remain completely under the influence of the Nazi Party and doctrine and controls.
Conclusion, with the approach of war, the essay members were largely called into the regular armed forces as individuals rather than by units.
Enough of the leaders remained, however, to continue to work with the Hitler Youth and with other older civilians not yet called out.
According to one estimate, 1,500,000 men were receiving essay training largely on Sundays and evenings in the spring of 1940.
The work done by the essay provided a great mass of partially trained men in all age groups who could be quickly organized and used in regular divisions on the outbreak of war.
A large part of the German military training had been accomplished with men who were technically in civilian status.
As a result, a German division during the war could be sent into combat with a minimum of training.
They're just focused on this one thing and they knew it was coming.
And it's strange to think that the rest of the world knew it was coming.
You can go back and look at those old political cartoons and you'll see all the political cartoons are showing Hitler and Germany just getting ready to go ham.
This is a very interesting section here.
Procurement and training of officers.
When preparing for the large army used in his war of conquest, Hitler faced the serious problem of developing an adequate number of trained officers to operate 300 or more divisions and the various specialized corps and services.
This problem was solved in large part between 1933 and the beginning of the war.
One advantage at the start was that the small standing army permitted by Germany by the Versailles Treaty had been excellently trained.
In World War I, Germany wasn't allowed to have a big army, they were allowed to have this tiny army and so they focused on that army really hard and got them very well trained.
Also, they had preserved the best traditions of the old German army and constituted a valuable reservoir of officer material for the rapid expansion of the new army.
In addition, there were available many thousands of men who had served in the First World War and who could be used again.
Many of these took part in the essay training activities discussed earlier.
Finally, the German general staff maintained its high standards and prestige and was ready to deal with this problem of officer procurement.
So they knew out of the gate that leadership was going to be an issue and that they were going to have to field good officers.
And how do you do that? You need to recruit the right officers and then you need to train them properly.
Officer training prior to the war, the program of training which produced most of the regular army officers in this period throws light on the character of the army, its relation to the pre-Hitler army and the high quality of standards prescribed for officers.
The civilian youth wishing to secure admission applied to the particular regiment or unit of his choice.
So if you want to be an officer, you got to apply to a specific unit.
Hey, I want to be an officer. He must be unmarried, be an Aryan and have a certificate of graduation from a gymnasium which is apparently the equivalent to a second year US college work.
He was given interviews by an examining board of officers and examinations which tested his moral qualities and his ability to stand up under strain.
Much importance was attached to a psychological test.
After passing these examinations, the candidate, now a cadet, served for one year in the ranks of the unit which received him.
So that's pretty cool. So you apply, they screen you, they test you, they see how you respond to pressure.
If they accept you, you go in and you become one of the troops. You don't become an officer, you just become one of the troops and you serve in the ranks.
There he received the same training given ordinary recruits and enjoyed no favors.
It was desired that the cadets should thereby learn to understand the mental attitudes, problems and points of view of the common soldier.
On the side and in addition to regular training, the cadets did special study on the use of weapons.
After this year, so after a year of that, so you go in, you're going to be a normal trooper.
After this year, the cadets were sent to a military school for nine months and received basic training and military theory identical for all branches of the service.
So that's pretty good move. You take everybody from the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, you put them all through the same training so they all have a baseline of knowledge and understanding.
There were four such schools admirably equipped without regard to expense. The course included field exercises, about 2,500 officers a year could be turned out in these schools.
After these nine months, the cadets went to a weapons school destined to bring the candidates back to earth from their theoretical courses.
Here they received training appropriate for their particular branch and an opportunity to command and train units attached to the school.
Finally, the cadet performed two or three months tour of duty back with his regiment and then if elected by unanimous vote of the officers in his unit, he was received for promotion as a second lieutenant.
This method, which bears the hallmark of the old Prussian aristocratic tradition, was modified gradually by provisions which made it more possible for reserve officers and specially qualified NCOs to obtain commissions.
That is a thorough screening process to get to be an officer in the military.
I mean you come back from all that training and then they have to have a unanimous vote that you're good to go and only then do you become a second lieutenant.
He said that there's the hallmark of the old Prussian aristocratic tradition. That seems a lot less aristocratic than the American system.
The American system, you become an officer to go to college.
So if you're my, if Echo is my kid and I'm like, well, you know, I kind of want you to be in charge. I'm going to send you to college and then you can go be an officer.
Here you got to apply, then you got to get screened, then you got to serve as a grunt, then you got to get screened again, then you got to go to this school for nine months,
then you got to come and get voted on to see if you're going to be an officer or not.
What do you think that's based on the American way to do it, like where you have to go to college first? Like, do you know what the basis for that was?
Yes, it's an aristocratic thing. I want, oh, I'm a rich aristocrat. I want my son Echo to be a leader. I don't want him being with the troops.
I don't want him to be with the elisted swine. No, so I'm going to send him to college and then he becomes an officer.
Yeah, but then why is that the criteria though? I mean, maybe on the surface you can kind of tell because like, well, if you go to college, that means you're obviously smart.
Therefore, an officer as a leader has to be smart or something kind of a thing. That's what it feels like anyway.
That's probably conceptually, but that has nothing to do with anything.
Yeah, the reality.
Yeah, but it's so okay.
There are brilliant enlisted guys. Yeah, that's what I think grew up in Wisconsin on a farm and they did parents didn't have any money to send to college.
So he enlisted the army. Yeah. So what?
Now he might eventually become an officer. He might put in for his commission or whatever, but he's already he's not going to be caught up to the guy that was grew up in with a rich family.
That was like, listen, son, you're going to college and you're going to be an officer.
Yeah. So how is that the criteria? Like, why did that come about that?
That's why I'm laughing because they're saying this is like the aristocratic tradition.
I'm like, hey, if you're whoever wrote this in 1942, the officers were aristocratic tradition in America 100%.
It's an aristocratic tradition. Oh, well, you've been to college.
So then you get to be in charge of all these people that haven't been to college.
Right. Because you're a higher class.
Because you're a higher class. You're an aristocrat. They're not.
Yeah. Kind of when you think about it, especially that part about voting them in.
Oh, yeah. Like that's kind of like and making them a grunt.
Now, look, if you go to the Naval Academy or you go to West Point, you spend like the summer on a ship as like a swabby. Right.
But that's not the same as doing a year in a line unit.
It's not the same, dude. And that you have to do that in order to get recommended.
Because there's a lot of officers, if they actually spent time as a grunt, people would be like, oh, this guy, this guy, this guy got what it takes.
He might be able to graduate college. Being able to graduate college has almost no bearing on being fit to lead troops in combat.
Yeah, that's kind of what I figured. So in a way, and obviously, I don't know, obviously, but in a way, this way that they're talking about kind of seems like more accurate.
It seems like a better system. Yes, it does.
So they got to go through like kind of more, more applicable stuff to achieve and get get get.
You put somebody with a line unit where even if they're a machine gunner, they're machine, they spend six months as a machine gunner, they may then become a fire team leader.
That person, you'd be able to go, hey, this guy's a really good fire team leader.
He should, yeah, he should make it into this go to the officer school.
But if he's a dud, yeah, as a fire team leader, he's not going to be a good squad leader.
He's not going to be a good platoon leader. Yeah, which kind of and which seems like that just because you go to college, it wouldn't necessarily screen any duds out.
It's going to screen zero duds or close to zero. Yeah.
And then at the end, as a final, I'm assuming screening scenario, you gotta get voted on. Yeah.
If somehow you maneuvered your way through this and that. After you spend two or three months there.
What do you think you're going to go through in those two or three months? I'm going to be testing you.
Like if I'm one of the other officers, I'm going to be like, all right, let's see how you're doing.
Here, run a raid on this on this training mission. Let's see how you do, bro.
And when it, because like, you know how there's kind of like survivor, remember, you know, that show, survivor on TV or whatever.
It's kind of like that. It's like the final, the final judgment where it's like, you can maneuver your way through stuff and whatever.
But if they, at the end of the day, don't want you to win or be on the team or be an officer, be whatever.
If your team does not want that. That show is kind of messed up the way the, I think it was an unintended consequence of the show.
Was that, you know, if who the people that got would get crushed first would be the people that had the, the, the most potential.
Yeah. You remember that? Yeah. You know, yeah, you're, I think you're right.
Unintended consequences. Unintended consequences. Yeah.
But it did kind of lead to the natural evolution of the game, game, like where.
Yeah. There was more game to it. Yeah. Cause it's like the game with the game. Yeah. Yeah. And that's really what we could say.
Cause, cause you might be like, Hey, look, what they had challenges, right? Two teams and here's the challenge.
And your thought should be, Hey, I'm going to help the team win this challenge because I'm good at rope climbs, right?
Hey, I'll, we got to do four rope climbs. I'll do three of them. And, and, and then, you know, someone do the last one cause I'm going to be tired.
Okay, cool. Let's get rid of Jaco. He's too strong. Yeah. You know what I'm saying?
So that's actually what happened on that TV show. Oh yeah. So, and I, the weird thing is I actually don't watch that much, but I've watched enough to be like.
I just remember like one, one season of it. I think the first season that came on or maybe the second season, the first season had Rudy Bosch on it.
Who's like a, a, a epic seal. And you know, one of the most respected, awesome old school seals. And he was, and he was pretty old when he did it.
He unfortunately passed away, but just a, so, you know, everyone kind of was watching like, see, see what the show was about.
Yeah. Actually, one season, one of the girls from here, from Victor, who was on there.
Really?
We have one of the Kara K.
Okay.
Pretty sure those survived.
Right on. How'd you do?
I don't know. I forget. I didn't watch it, but I watched like some of them. You know, I don't know who won though, but yeah, we'll survive.
So why are you talking about this again?
Because at the end, they got the council. So that council scenario.
Oh, so you got a base.
So if you were a total backstabber, backstabber, then the council would vote you out.
That's only one reason though. That's only one reason. So, or like, if you were hard to get along with somewhere along the lines, they would vote you off because of that.
But somewhere along the lines, they would utilize those things too. So basically it gave rise to like this game within the game.
Just like how you said, where you being strong at challenges is an element.
It can be used for your advantage or against you, you know, kind of a thing.
And that goes for every quality that each individual demonstrates.
So the thing about survivor, unfortunately, it's like a winner take all kind of the thing at the end where they just get money.
One guy, actually two people, but
Did anyone ever make deals to say like, hey, if you and I win, I'll give you half?
I don't know of any, but if that were to happen, that wouldn't surprise me because it's all within the game, you know, because I think at the end to or towards the end,
How much did they win? A million?
I think one million dollars. And then the second guy, second place got way less but a significant amount as well.
But it at the end of it to or towards the end, they would, if you got voted off, it's like at the last four or five or however many people, if you get voted off,
You get to go on to this council that has a say in who's going to win or something like that.
So see how that weird balance kind of is where it's like, you get voted off, you better be squared away, you better be a good person, you better be whatever, you know.
So it's like the final, you know, thing where it's like, yeah, you could be good at this, this and this, but if you don't have at the end of the day,
Enough of what it takes that we think everyone else in the group within the group thinks, but you ain't going to make it.
I don't care what, how cool you think you are.
Yeah, it's good to have multiple assessments, which is the program that we're looking at right here with the Nazis data, multiple assessments in the actual environment where you need to step up.
And you're going to get a decent result.
More decent than said, well, you know, Fred went to college, so he should be in charge of a platoon of soldiers.
You know, hey, look, there's some great officers.
Yeah.
The interesting thing about this is great officers that went to the academies.
There's great officers that went to ROTC.
There's great officers that went to OCS.
There's horrible officers that went to the academies.
There's horrible officers that went to OCS.
There's horrible officers that did ROTC.
And it kind of surprised me when I first worked with military academy officers.
I thought to myself, hey, these guys have been training for four years to be leaders.
Like this guy is going to be awesome.
That was not always the case.
And I realized that it was more about that you could have some awesome officers that went to the academies.
You could have some terrible ones.
And you could have all, you know, it didn't matter where they were from.
It was who they were as people.
That was what was much more important.
Yeah.
So when you went to cut, because you went after, right?
So when you went to college, do you think that that college experience helped you in your officer position?
It helped me because I became a better writer and reader.
Like I was an English major.
And I remember reading like directives and rows of engagement.
And not that I knew how to read them so that I would understand them better.
And I got that from having to read Shakespeare, bro.
I hate to say it.
I know it sounds like freaking stupid, but when you read Shakespeare, you have to look up the words.
You have to see what the context is.
And I realized if when I, before I went to college, I'd be like, I don't know what that means, but whatever.
I get the gist, right?
And that did the, getting the gist doesn't cut it.
And then I realized also writing a report or writing an award or writing an evaluation.
Same thing.
I'm like, you will, he'll know what I mean.
No, I'm going to make sure that my boss understands what this means.
And you think that college taught you that 100%.
I mean, dude, I was one time I took five English classes in one semester.
That was ignorant, bro.
That was one of the dumbest things I've done.
Because I was just reading.
I was reading and writing just like 10, 12 hours a day on the weekends.
I remember just reading books.
It was ridiculous.
Yeah.
And I took this one class.
I was like, oh, this would be good.
Like nice little skater class, little skate class.
It was literature and film.
Cool.
Well, watch, right?
So you got lured right into it just like I did.
It was like you spend all, you know, you got to read the book.
And then they get, then you watch a movie that they made from the book.
Oh yeah.
But watching the movie takes an hour.
But you still spent 12 hours reading this freaking God forsaken book.
Oh yeah, especially.
So it wasn't, it wasn't good.
I understand.
It bothered me.
I think it was a good tip right there, by the way.
Because in theory, you take all English, you're like, shit, I'll have to think about anatomy
or if you can fit whatever else class.
I don't think about that.
I just think about English or literature, whatever we're doing.
No, no, no.
Check this out.
There's a book called Tom Jones, which is an outstanding book.
It's an amazing book.
It's probably 700 pages long with tiny, tiny, tiny writing and paper thin little sheets of
paper.
And it's really descriptive.
And it's about human nature.
And it tells this story, elaborate story with all these different characters.
And so we read this book and then we watched the movie.
In the movie, there's no talking.
The whole movie's no talking.
They're just acting.
They're just doing things.
It was like, just picture any book.
Picture any book that you've ever read and there's no, and then you take that.
I mean, just what's it like?
Take picture of Tom Clancy.
Have you ever read?
What's a movie that was a book that you like?
A movie.
That was a book that I like.
Flight Club.
Okay.
So picture Flight Club, they take that book and they make a movie and there's no talking
in it because that's literally what they did.
I see what they're doing though.
Yeah.
I know why they assigned that.
No, it was cool.
It was cool.
It was very cool to watch how they did it and just see the interactions and you could,
you could totally tell what was going on just by the way they were looking at each
other and they carried themselves, their body language, all this stuff.
And it was pretty amazing to watch.
For real.
But guess what?
Still had to read that freaking book.
Still had to read that book and it bothered me because, because I would always read everything
that I was told to read, right?
I think I might be the only person in college that has ever done that.
Personal challenge.
And I would get like, give us a quiz to check to make sure you read, you did the reading.
So they give you a little check and the check is, these are just questions, but you know,
if you read it, you're going to know.
And I missed the first, the first quiz about Tom Jones.
I missed, I missed one question and I was so mad.
And here's what made me mad is that it said, this is a book, it says basically this is a
book about human nature.
And the question was like, what is the, or it said like the main theme of this book is
human nature.
And so the question on the test was, hey, what is the main theme in this book?
And I put like the kind of the plot that was starting to unfold, but that was wrong.
And I was bummed out, missed it.
That's the one question I missed in that class.
You're still mad about it.
I'm still mad, obviously.
I'm sitting here.
What's that?
What's the word, what's the word they use now to describe a little bit mad salty?
I'm a little bit salty about that.
So, okay, so when you go to college, I think I went to the professor too.
And I was like, hey, what, you marked this wrong?
You contested it.
Yeah.
And actually that professor was really cool.
She was cool.
And I had had another class when I was like, hey, you know, doctor, you know, you mark
this wrong, just want to, you know, just show you that you accidentally marked this wrong,
obviously.
And she was like, no, it's a book of the theme of human nature.
And I was like, well, where are you getting that from?
And she points to the sentence that literally says that.
And I was like, cool, I won't miss another question this semester.
She said, I know John, because they all called me just the only place in the world.
That group of people called me John was when I went to college because it was on my, what
is it?
The, what's the role called called in the college attendance sheet or whatever.
So then my name was John.
And they'd be like, John, yes.
Seems to make sense.
I was like, well, you can call me John.
I didn't know that's not my thing.
That's not my thing.
Yeah.
I dig it.
I dig it fully.
So it is.
So when you go to college for, let's say your situation, I'm seeing those scenarios, but
your situation you enlisted, boom, time to go to the officer program.
I went to officer can at school.
And then do you go to college after that?
I did.
I happened to go to college afterwards.
My, my program was very strange.
Okay.
So let's say whatever the protocol is, you go to college.
Is there, are there like majors that you can and cannot take to fulfill?
Yes, there are.
I don't know what they are, but they're pretty.
I mean, I don't think you could take like some totally crazy, unapplicable thing.
But you can, I mean, I took English.
Yeah.
So that, I mean, but the English, it's, it feels like English would be like, if there
was a list of majors that you could have, then the rest are unacceptable for this program.
You think English would be on the list.
It feels like it, but there were, there were.
You definitely can't pick something that's like, I don't know.
I don't think you could pick theater.
Yeah.
Like, cause they'd say, Hey, when, when actually, you know, you're going to be standing up
and talking in front of people.
You might want to get good at public speaking.
Right.
But I don't think you could take theater.
I don't think, although I had one of my, one of my assistant platoon commanders.
He was, you know, as a, as I was getting to know him, like, well, what did you study
in college?
You know what he studied in college?
He studied percussion.
The drum.
Yeah.
He, he, that's what his degree was in percussion.
I'm like, bro, this is not going to help you too much in the day.
Yeah.
Like, um, you know how people go hard with like French poetry or something like that?
Where, I don't think you could get more useless than percussion.
Even French poetry might be more useful than percussion.
And I mean, he was awesome.
We're freaking great guy, but was he good at drumming?
Yeah.
Hell yeah.
Absolutely.
All right.
Um, so it seems like a very squared away methodology for them to, to select their officer.
Now we get into the training with the approach of the war, the programs for officer training
were enlarged and speeded up in 1940.
U.S. observers estimated that schools were turning out about 6,500 officers every four
months and that 30,000 new officers entered the army between September, 1939 and December,
1940.
Man, they are an explosive growth curve.
And applying for the, for a commission in the regular army continued to undergo relatively
long training course in principle as thorough as that of peacetime and quite similar in
plan.
Candidates for temporary war commissions apparently receive a shorter period of training, sometimes
according to observers and reports for a few months only.
All candidates for officer grades must have had 15 months of service and at least two
months of experience in the field as a leader of a section or platoon.
Although these standards ensure that candidates have had considerable background training,
nevertheless expanding the German army to six times its peacetime figures has produced
obvious problems.
Many reserve officers and NCOs have been commissioned from the ranks and from veterans
of the first world war.
Civilians have been appointed to administrative posts.
Regular officers and civilian specialists have been thus used to free the line officer
for his main task, leadership of troops in combat.
Attention has paid, been paid to the continuation training of officers in the field.
So they had a way of taking, hey, like Echo Charles was a video guy in the civilian world
and they're like, oh, you know what, you're going to become an officer, but you're going
to be in charge of propaganda and you're going to go make videos for the third Reich.
And meanwhile, Jaco, who is a sergeant in the army and was a platoon leader or a platoon
sergeant in the army, we're going to make him an infantry officer.
So they had a way of kind of putting people and utilizing the knowledge that they had
in a way that's going to help the whole overall effort.
Continuation training of officers, this has received a good deal of attention since the
start of the war owing to the relatively short training received by many officers.
The Germans are particularly concerned with the progressive training of company officers
on whom depends the combat efficiency of the fighting units.
One of the essential duties of a commanding officer in wartime is to ensure the further
military education of his junior officers who must be made to realize that to stand
still is to retrogress.
Interesting word, retrogress.
Yeah, yeah, it's like degress.
This is so important.
When you're in charge of people, you're in charge of training them and you're in charge
of training your subordinate leaders.
There's no training cadre.
There's no big group up above you in the chain of command.
You are in charge of it.
And that's the same.
It should be the same in any company.
It should be the same in your life.
You're in charge of it.
Take charge of it.
And then the main thing that they're trying to, they must be made to realize is that to
stand still is to retrogress.
That's what the Nazis were about.
Blitzkrieg, right?
We're moving.
We're going to get after it.
The concept of continuation training is broad.
It involves a review of fundamentals with constant reference to the manual of troop leadership.
It stresses the need for versatility.
The infantry officer must familiarize himself with the capabilities of other arms than his
own.
While of all, the officer must prepare himself for emergency service in the next higher grade
or for replacing comrades in other executive positions.
It is the responsibility of senior officers to assist their juniors in training for the
next higher grade.
So they put such an emphasis on training their subordinate leadership.
German sources illustrate these principles.
In the first place, let us outline the requirements for the development of our officers.
The strength of the German army has lain and still lies in the platoon commander at
the front.
This will remain so in the future and the example of our lieutenants as he stands and
fights at the front cannot be emulated by any nation on earth according to a well known
saying of Bismarck.
Again, that's some good propaganda.
You're telling these young lieutenants you're the one that's going to make a difference.
It's like the Marine Corps Squad Leader makes a difference.
One would misjudge the lieutenants mission entirely however if one would have him conform
exclusively to the services of and requirements for a platoon commander.
So it's not just platoon commander you're going to be, actual conditions require much
more of the lieutenant than mere services such.
Any lieutenant may at any time have to educate, train and lead a company, battery or other
similar unit and any lieutenant may suddenly have to serve as a staff officer or even as
an adjutant or aide to camp.
The progressive training of the officer corps must be carried out with this eventuality
in mind.
So you're not just trained to be a platoon leader, you're trained to be a company commander,
a battery commander, a staff officer.
That's what you're trained to do everything.
If the officer is ready to serve in several different capacities at a moment's notice
he must be thoroughly indoctrinated in the fundamentals of tactics.
This point emphasized in the German source just quoted.
One difficulty is that a great many young officers have no knowledge of the fundamentals
of tactics.
Many dangerous mistakes arrive from this fact and during lessons there is often vague discussion
because of a lack of understanding.
Lack of indoctrination is the most serious defect.
It results in many unnecessary commands.
So if you don't know what you're doing you're going to make a bunch of unnecessary commands.
One must insist therefore that thorough indoctrination of all officers regarding tactical principles
is absolutely essential.
Young officers must be thoroughly familiar with the tactics of all units up to and including
the battalion.
In this connection much work is needed.
Younger officers must work to teach the younger ones.
Must work hard to learn.
It is an open question as to which task is most difficult but that is immaterial.
The important thing is to attain clearly defined objective.
The ideal desire here was summed up by a German officer in a conversation with an observer.
We apply simple methods to our leadership.
You will find that our lower units are so trained that many in them beside the leader
is capable of taking command.
So there you go.
Keeping things simple.
People there's multiple layers of leadership ready to take over when needed and we're training
and indoctrinating them into the basic tactics so everyone knows and understands.
Standards for officers.
Section five.
The German Army tradition set high standards for officers both as to character and as to
professional ability.
Great attention is paid to this subject in professional journals and books.
Particular concern is shown for officers of company rank.
This is partly because in a rapidly expanding army it was necessary to observe and integrate
a large number of new officers at lower grades.
But it is also due to conviction that efficiency and leadership standards of these officers
are of crucial importance for the combat success of the army.
These officers actually lead the units in the frontline combat.
With this principle in mind the German general staff has followed a policy which is described
very clearly by a U.S. observer.
Quote.
In the German Army leadership is emphasized more than general ship.
The general officer must of course combine to an outstanding degree proved qualifications
for field leadership, mental resiliency and executive capacity supported by unusual physical
stamina and ruggedness of constitution.
German general officers were selected on this basis prior to mobilization.
They won their positions in the pre-war building training and equipping of the modern army.
All of them have had world war experience.
As far as we know none of them has been relieved from command during operations.
The efficiency and ability of these German generals seems to be taken for granted.
They have received practically no publicity during the war.
Only one general, general of infantry, Edward Dietl, who commanded at Narvik, has been
brought before the public for his accomplishments.
This was not for his general ship, but for the qualities of leadership displayed in situations
normally met with leaders lower in the command.
So they're not even hyping up generals.
And you could see this is probably an ego thing.
You know like Hitler doesn't want generals getting any glory.
He's like hey give the glory to the soldiers.
And but we got one general that kind of acted like a badass.
Okay we'll give him some credit but everybody else you're just doing your job.
Give the glory to the troops.
You think Hitler wanted competition?
No.
Okay so what's the strategy?
According to your theory obviously I think that's what you're saying is that like okay
so since the troops aren't really in competition for glory like the top guy so give them the
glory give them you know kind of the credit and the props.
So because generals essentially can be in competition with him.
Might be competition for me.
Like he looks at them as kind of a threat for the glory in a way.
Like we go to a jujitsu tournament and you're a black belt and you win.
But I'm like hey you know what good job you know Fred in the white belt category and on
Monday I give a big speech and I give credit to all like the junior troops because you're
kind of a threat and I'm like I'm not giving this guy any credit.
You know what I'm saying?
Yeah like yeah like some people like a general is high enough rank that he might kind of like
supersede my glory because he's too close to my lane.
Interesting.
Didn't like that.
He says on the contrary leaders in the lower command have received a great deal of publicity
since the outbreak of the war so every young you know German soldier that does something
awesome is getting this full blown credit.
And by the way what was Hitler during World War I?
He was a corporal.
He was running around.
He was a communicator.
He was a runner.
So he's giving credit to those guys.
Another general principle underlying German training of officers is the view that good
leaders can be developed for lower commands by carefully training for leadership is not
confined to a few individuals gifted with superior qualities.
However every effort is made to find the right place for each individual according to his
special aptitudes and a good deal of shifting is done in order to accomplish this.
So they take eyes and they go oh you know what you're not this you know what echo you
might be want to be over here in the propaganda area because you're not good at making videos
but we're not going to put you up there running troops.
You're fain.
A German officer in conversation accounted for his German military success in a way which
brings out main standards of leadership prized in his army.
And this is what this German officer says.
I would say that the success of our leadership depends upon the selection of officers of
improved character and skill and upon our system of learning each required task and
maneuver to perfection by repeated process.
One can only learn by doing the proverb we see the east mocked.
Knowledge is power is in truth not accurate.
Knowledge becomes power only when it is being successfully applied in the gaining of an objective.
So just because you know something doesn't mean anything.
And then they talk about character.
And again it's very strange to be reading a book about freaking Nazis and talk about
their character.
And you know all that being said and you're going to see some of this here.
This this efficiency this this obedience this loyalty obviously all that plays into the
why this why this this system was able to thrive so much because you were being told
since you were 10 years old hey you need to support you need to support the fatherland
you need to support the Reich and you what you don't go against that.
So something doesn't look right.
You got you know what it's the Reich we're pushing on.
We're you know as you like to say oh that's what we're doing.
So character the Germans fully realize the importance of character as a basis for successful
combat leadership.
Their teaching on military leadership reminds officers constantly of their responsibility
to lead by example and self-discipline.
A book called Company Commander this is a German book a book called Company Commander
says the Company Commander is a living example to every man in his organization to be an
officer means to set an example for the men the officer must be his soldiers incarnation
of soldiery his model if the German officer is inspired by this mission the best and deepest
qualities of his soul will be awakened his life's aim will be fulfilled if he succeeds
through knowledge demeanor and conviction in forcing his troops to follow him this is
the manly purpose for which it is worthwhile to stake life in order to win life in Germany
the road to rank of officer is open to every capable soldier the destination destination
can be reached only by efficiency in time of war and by actions in face of the enemy
the real authority of an officer is recreated daily by his entire attitude the ancient proverb
applies earn it in order to possess it the more his men are convinced that the authority
of his rank is deserved through moral worth the stronger will be the influence of the
officer's personality no one should accept that rank attained by promotion will give
to his position authority sufficiently high enough for him to relax his effort in the
belief that the objective has been reached real authority is not dependent upon shoulder
straps stars and badges it depends only on efficiency and worth again you can't argue
with that and this is you know I always say if you have to pull rank in an argument then
you're wrong and that's what they're saying here she's not it's not your badges not your
straps not your stars that give you authority it's who you are and know this is a great
thing to remember no one should expect that rank attained by promotion will give his position
the authority sufficiently high enough for him to relax his effort just because you got
promoted doesn't mean anything you got to work harder when you get promoted that's what
they tell you in the Navy they're like oh cool you got promoted cool now you can work
harder you have more responsibility discipline has always been recognized as essential in
German training and the company officers are given the main responsibility for developing
discipline by example as well as in precept the book just quoted says on the subject
discipline is the basic doctrine of the army the objective of soldierly training must be
to make it unshake the unshakable principle of every individual if the officer per font
personifies physical and moral discipline and thereby sets the example for the conduct
of his men he will achieve his aim even in difficult situations his authority will be
unquestioned if he has convinced his men of his sincerity and leadership he need not
most be the most he need not be the most clever but he must be the most faultless man of his
unit the German soldier has an instinctive understanding particularly the simple man of
the moral qualities of his superior he cheerfully follows a leader whom he respects whom he could
admire daily life on the battleground forces the officer to be under the eyes of his men
day and night the necessities this necessitates a large amount of self-discipline both on
and off duty which includes not only cheerful and conscientious fulfillment of all duties
but also modesty in requirements for quarters and food soberness and drink self-control
and sexual matters cleanliness and speech and a balanced character end quote so what
are they looking for they're looking for that leader to be beyond reproach now I don't like
that they say hey the leader doesn't need to be the most clever but he needs to be the
most faultless and what that sets you up for is trying to cover for yourself it's trying
to act like you do you know everything that's a problem that's a problem but the rest of
it trying to set an example on and off duty right not over drinking discipline and everything
that you do it's weird they they talk about self-control and sexual matters like why does
that come up that's weird right come on bro yeah what's that no fap right yeah I mean
that's just a weird thing like it's it's strange that they throw that in here what's
going on what caused that to come out you know what I'm saying well it's one of those
discipline things right where if you can what refrain from I get it but like why is that
in here this is what this this is what a Nazi book said yeah right self-control and sexual
matters because there's some deviant freaks going on and he's trying to tighten it up
never know I guess but cleanliness and speech a balanced character goes on to say the German
military Bible for company officers is the manual of troop leadership this book gives
their basic tactical and combat doctrine and it's plenty say on the moral aspects of leadership
the following are some quotations here's some quotations from their books war is the severest
test of the spiritual and physical strength in war character outweighs intellect many
stand forth on the field of battle who in peace would remain unnoticed this is hype
trade shit right here for the troops the officer is a leader and a teacher besides
his knowledge of men and his sense of justice he must be distinguished by his superior knowledge
and experience his earnestness his self-control and his courage again hype the example and
personal conduct of officers and non-commissioned officers are of decisive influence on the troops
the officer who in the face of the enemy is cold-blooded decisive and courageous inspires
his troops onward the officer must likewise find the way into the hearts of his subordinates
and gain their trust to an understanding of their feelings and thoughts and through never
ceasing care of their needs mutual trust is the surest basis of discipline and necessity
and danger so there you go there's a little dichotomy coming at you gotta be the hardest
dude but at the same time you gotta care about your troops through never ceasing care of
their needs the Nazi dichotomy of leadership there relations of company officers with enlisted
personnel German Directive stressed the desirability of comradeship in units as a moral basis for
fighting efficiency and again the company officers are reminded of their responsibility
the company commander does the book again the company commander says when the soldier
learns by experience that he is being taken care of and that is the officer as his best
comrade who sees to this care then he is ready he will follow such a superior through thick
and thin and will cheerfully perform the most difficult duties hey Hitler you might have
wanted to read that paragraph when you left your boys at Stalingrad to get surrounded
and freaking die the officer must always set an example by his own conduct and soldierly
qualities he must never think of himself until his men have been cared for I mean this is
like leadership one on one right never think of yourself until your team is taken care
of only such an example can convince of the moral right to demand services from others
only the model life can confirm that right the officers own efficiency alone will emphasize
the necessity of his orders again you get that weird use the word efficiency the scary
word I don't like it when Nazis say efficiency it makes me nervous if the men copy the example
set by the officers officers and men will be joined comradely association and festivities
place the officer in a situation basically different from that in times of peace he must
never represent a contrast to the privations and restrictions which the men necessarily
take upon themselves and he must never forget that their need for association and festivity
is no less great or justified than his that than his own so that's what that's saying
right there is that when you're an officer and your team has to sleep in the field or
they have to go without food or they have to go without water you need to do the same
thing burdens and privations restrictions and negations are shared mutually and equally
every company commander must be a Spartan his must men must feel that privations mean nothing
to him that he rises above such problems and that daily difficulties cannot break his spirit
again solid advice continuing on the company officers advised to be severe when necessary
but without resorting to abuse to disciplinary punishment as rare to use disciplinary punishment
as rarely as possible and always in a way that is clearly justified to take an interest
in the personal difficulties of his men to maintain a cheerful atmosphere under all circumstances
to visit a and converse with troops in quarters and to take the greatest care in choice of
supervision of non-commissioned officers this does not seem like Nazi stuff.
That's exactly what I was thinking I was like oh dang these guys seem I'm gonna say it not
gonna sound correct but they kind of seem like good guys.
Yeah well that's that's the scary thing here.
It's saying like straight up like don't feel like physical discipline or right disciplinary
punishment is rare use disciplinary punishment as rarely as possible and and always in a
way that's clearly justified maintain a cheerful atmosphere as a Nazi I'm gonna maintain a cheerful
atmosphere doesn't sound yeah yeah it's interesting well if you know at some point maybe we'll
take the the Nazi theories and apply them sort of through a military lens and what it
would look like because what you end up with is like a tyrannical leader and you must comply
and everyone needs to shut up and by the way we're gonna blame when something goes wrong
we're gonna blame everybody else which is kind of a key component to Hitler's attitude
which is the reason that Germany is having these problems isn't Germany's fault it's
the first world war and the Versailles treaty and the Jews so it's not our fault it's everyone
else's fault we're just blaming everyone else so if we took that sort of higher headquarters
Nazi philosophy and put it through a mill put it on the military lens this will look
a lot different.
Taking it back to the book German officers are expected to give attention to the mental
outlook of their men and this includes giving them frequent talks on the war the soldier
must know what the war is that the war is his personal affair and he must be instructed
on its causes meaning and progress it is believed that the soldiers who are informed as to why
they are fighting and of their part in the battle will show improved discipline in combat
you've got to explain the why newspapers radio and books are used to assist toward this end
an article in a military review advises the company commander to assemble his unit once
a week for discussion the father of the company should speak on all matters official and unofficial
current events politics which influence the mental attitudes and morale of the men troop
leadership reminds officers that quote the leaders must live with their troops participating
in their dangers their wants their joys their sorrows only in this way can they estimate
the battle worth and the requirement of the requirements of the troops man is not responsible
for himself alone but for his comrades he can do more who has greater capacity of accomplishment
must instruct the inexperienced and weaker from such conduct the feeling of real comradeship
develops which is just as important between the leaders and the men as between the men
themselves troops welded together only superficially and not through long training and experience
more easily fail under severe strain and under unexpected crisis therefore before the outbreak
of war the development and maintenance of steadfastness and discipline in the troops
as well as their training is of decisive importance so look that's from their book the exact same
stuff that you'll hear in the US military the precepts outlined above have been actually
carried out as us or observers have reported during the past few years one report states
German leadership is based on mutual respect between officer and man we were again impressed
with the fact that cooperation between officers and men works both ways we're going to get
into principles of leadership section six the training of German officers of all grades
for the present war has been so conducted to emphasize certain basic doctrines while
these may seem rather general and character they must be understood in order to appreciate
German tactics according to observers German combat tactics reflect the application of
these doctrines which are by no means pious phrases of military theorists the very concrete
and practical manual on troop leadership is full of references to these principles as
later quotations will show the German army has been organized and trained to operate
as the task force principle according to the definition of task force is a unit of arms
of all arms and services under one commander for the accomplishment of a single specified
mission this principle operates at all levels of command when a mission is assigned to a
commander he is given the means judge necessary to accomplishment to accomplish it this these
means are turned over to him for combined training by which his men are molded into
a combat team the members of this team must know their mission and work together for its
accomplishment individual units are called upon to merge into the structure of the command
team of the combat team the training phase permits commanders and staff to become thoroughly
acquainted with all their officers in this way they learn one another shortcomings and
strong points so that many later misunderstandings are prevented in the stress of combat personal
combinations thus built up often become so strong that they are maintained through successive
campaigns every effort is made to discourage rivalry between components of a team for example
through march song though march songs are highly regarded and developed there are no
songs about the superiority of infantry to engineers or artillery etc there are no inter
company or inter battery athletics to develop useless competitive emotions commanders of
subordinate units are so imbued with the feeling of cooperation that they go out of their way
to assist one another they cover and move for each other considerable attention is given
to the acquaintance of officers of one branch with the weapons and tactics of another even
the manual of a specialized branch shows this effort anti-aircraft gunners manual has a
section on what these gunners must know about their employment as part of ground forces
teams including a discussion of divisional tactics the greatest factor in successful
deployment of armed troops is speed in obtaining the initial coordination of arms and in the
execution of a coordinated mission by various arms so they are absolutely pushing for everyone
to work together that's what they're pushing for we have to cover and move for each other
their next principle is aggressiveness and a niche initiative some people say default
aggressive I've heard the prime characteristic of German tactical doctrine is maintenance
of the initiative and avoidance of stabilization the Germans believe absolutely that if a trained
commander prepares and executes aggressive moves even with even average ability and reasonable
speed the enemy will be kept too busy meeting them to carry out a successful offensive measures
the German officer phrase the concept in a way that can be understood by troops our men
are taught that their own safety depends upon their getting to the enemy's rear and not
staying in front of him this is fundamental of our training these guys are looking to
flank all day long aggressive tactics require the use of initiative by combat leaders down
to the platoon commanders and non-commissioned officers development of this capacity for
taking the initiative is stressed at all points in military training whether theoretical or
practical no illusion surviving the first world war is more dangerous than the notion
that German leaders especially of small units are bound by rigid and mechanical regulations
and can move only in accordance with detailed pre-arranged plans so again that's what they
started this war of this 1942 by the end Hitler was dictating they lost this in actual fact
German leaders of small units have shown great skill in this war adapting their tactics and
flecks flexibility to meet new situations they have been trained to do this the handbook on
the German squad and combat illustrates the doc the this doctrine quote in the execution
of battle missions one should be most careful to avoid the idea that only one solution can
be right can be the right one only success in an actual case could prove that a given
solution was the right one a model solution must not be drilled into the soldiers they
and particularly the squad leader should be trained to be flexible and should learn to
be equal on any occasion so this is kind of the antithesis of what you think of a Nazi
right just calling out for flexibility and for free thought I mean free thought is the
antithesis of Nazi attitude Nazi attitudes we're all gonna think the same thing that's
why we're gonna start indoctrinating you when you're 10 years old no we want you to have
free thought and ultimately this kind of thing this is one of the things that leads
America to have that open mind on the battlefield to see what we can adjust to figure out what
we need to change and start winning German regulations place due value on getting as
much information as possible about the enemy as a prerequisite for action but regulations
also prevent this from becoming a requirement that crypt cripples action this is a dichotomy
of leadership hey you look you got to get good information but don't let it cripple
you and wait for it quote obscurity of the situation is the rule seldom will one have
exact information of the enemy clarification of hostile situation is is self evident is
a self evident demand however to wait intense situations for information is seldom a token
of strong leadership but often one of weakness you say you got to take action you're you
got to be aggressive that's got to be a default mode so the officer is taught to attack in
order to clear up the situation that's a great quote you want to know what's going on attack
you figured out and gain a basis for an estimate of further action battle itself proves the
most reliable means of estimating the enemy oh that's a good one I don't recommend that
a bar fight let's see how tough this guy is all right omission and delay are regarded
as greater crimes than the choice of the wrong method of action in training exercises the
choice of a tactical method is subject to full criticism by reviewing officers but no man
is reprimanded because he tried to do something and failed they want you to do something even
that's a big one I mean kind of it wouldn't seem that way but it seems like that's a very
surprising one right there they want you to take action that that's that's the crazy thing
about this this is what we don't think the specific fact that like you'll be you'll be
less reprimanded if you do the wrong thing yeah like you think oh you know okay so you
know like the expression right don't be a Nazi about it like grammar not yeah or you know
soup not here you know like that just as a whatever that kind of expression it kind of
says the opposite of that where it's like you better do it correctly or almost feels
like they're saying do it correctly or don't do it all almost kind of things what it feels
like nonetheless it does feel like do not make a mistake yeah or die kind of a thing
kind of a feeling that's kind of funny like if you were to like the grammar not see one
yeah think about if you were legitimately just paranoid about making a mistake and having
the grammar not see come at you and so what are you gonna do you're not gonna write it
yeah so you do what yeah you're just gonna sit there yeah you're not gonna put the word
out she gotta be like hey grammar not see no yeah get you can say hey you might want
to get just me here but good try that's what they say that's that's being a grammar not
see that's all right here's some quotations from the troop leadership manual the teaching
of the conduct of war cannot be concentrated exhaustively in regulations the principles
so unannunciated must be employed dependent upon their situation it's the same thing dude
it's not about regulations you gotta figure it out the emptiness of the battlefield depend
demands independent thinking and acting of fighters who considering each situation are
dominated by determination to act boldly and decisively and to arrive at success we just
want you to go figure it out we don't care how you do it the first demand in war is decisive
action everyone the highest commander the most junior soldier must be aware that omissions
and neglect incriminate him more severely than mistake and choice of means great success
presume boldness and daring proceeded by good judgment they're just telling us these troops
over and over again make something happen we never have at our disposal all the desired
forces for the decisive action he who will be secure everywhere or who fixes forces and
secondary tasks acts contrary to the fundamental yeah I just need a few more troops to go no
go hold on we're gonna hold we got set security no go hold on I need to figure out what the
enemy's doing no go the weaker the force through speed mobility great march accomplishment
surprise and deception the utilization of darkness and terrain to the fullest can be stronger
at the decisive area time and space must be correctly estimated favorably situations favorable
situations quickly recognized and decisively exploited every advantage over the enemy increases
our own freedom of action the attack is launched in order to defeat the enemy the attacker has
the initiative superiority of leadership and of troops shows to the best advantage in the
attack success does not always come to the superiority of numbers a German officer commenting
on the clearly commenting early on the early campaigns of the war recognized the capacity
of very young officers to meet these standards of leadership so this is pretty impressive
before the campaign in the West we underestimated the wonderful leadership of our 22 year old
company commanders they acted without hesitation where older men would have paused for long
consideration and heavy artillery reinforcements time and time again we found these young commanders
calling for a few 88 millimeter anti aircraft guns a handful of anti-tank guns and a platoon
pie a platoon of pioneers to assist them in taking a famous fortress and then actually
capturing it with no delay and relatively few losses the enthusiastic leadership of
youth was one of the great features of our advance West so they did they actually this
is like one of those things where you program the robot and then it like does even better
than you thought it was going to do they told these guys advance you know fight go be aggressive
and that's what they did and it worked and they were surprised by it next section is
orders and communications aggressiveness cannot serve as the sole principle of tactics without
leading to disaster so there's the dichotomy we want to be aggressive but if you're just
being aggressive it can be a disaster German training supplements that principle with careful
attention to all measures which provide that action taken shall be considered and intelligent
these measures include orders clear orders and an efficient system of communications
simple clear and concise orders that's what this goes into orders should be clear and
direct should confine themselves to the main lines of a mission assigned to the lower command
giving the lower command latitude of choice of the means to execute the mission so here's
what you got to do we don't care how you do it the Germans believe that one of the signs
of deterioration in their armies toward the end of the first world war was the growing
verbosity and ambiguity of orders they propose to avoid these mistakes by constantly drilling
conciseness and clarity isn't it interesting as I'm talking to you more it's becoming
more ambiguous that's what they're saying yeah we started falling part of the end of
world war one why the more we talked the less people understood what was happening that's
a that's a freaking very interesting very interesting dichotomy this is an interesting
statement here when we start talking about the way these guys are sort of living their
lives no German officer begins the day without a mission if the mission has not been received
received from higher authority he gives himself a mission for the day and one which is definitely
not a mere compliance with a printed schedule the printed schedule is nothing but a time
allotment or control he approaches this is the German officer approaches each day's
task as he would a battle in order that eventually he will approach battle as he would a day's
task just kind of live in the life the manual of troop leadership says on this subject of
orders the order puts the decision into effect clear orders are essential for the frictionless
cooperation of all commanders for the higher commander the written order provides the foundation
for leadership it is communicated to the lower units printed in carbon copy type written
or written by hand or by technical communication means frequently is dictated dictated over
the telephone in every instance the most sure and suitable method of transmission is to
be chosen the more pressing the situation the shorter the order is a mistake everybody
makes what's what's challenging about that is in order for me to give you an order in
a pressing situation I have to be able to look at the situation simplify it and then
distill it the order down into something that's like hey we need to move north now and there's
a lot of other things going on what we need to do is we need to move north now and get
this terrain features solidified boom that's it go that's one of the most challenging things
that leaders one of the most challenging things for leaders to do is to look at complex situation
and simplify them and then verbalize what needs to happen that's something you can practice
that's something you should think about all the time that's something when you when you
are going to talk to your team you should write down what you're going to say and say
it in as few words as possible that's one thing I kind of liked about Twitter back
back in the day when I was on Twitter a lot it was fun you had to like you had to like
you had 140 characters and then they made it easy gave you 280 characters but back in
the day 140 characters you had that's what you're going to do it's good practice became
ambiguous after one I did you know there's a that always reminds me of the ethics life
maybe yeah life tells the story of BTF Tony or Lafell go through his his orders or whatever
he's telling everybody and then BTF Tony will be like hey I'm going to remember three of
those things which of them do you want them to be yeah classic Tony that I mean that would
be so fun to say in a real situation I don't know how many people I could pull that off
with without the beginning kind of mad at me but if you pull it off that'd be sweet yeah
well you can't get mad at BTF Tony for a bunch of reasons don't want to be awesome number
two because he's right he's telling you the truth and you got to be happy with important
orders it is often advisable to use two or more means of transmission that makes sense
it is easy to underestimate the time required to get an order through oh that's a important
one I told those guys yesterday oh they didn't get the word yet big shocker too many orders
especially in battle during which communication means may miscarry produce the danger of an
impairing independence of action of lower commanders so if I'm giving you orders all the time eventually
you're just waiting for orders that's just I'm centralizing command and I'm micromanaging
it's going to be a problem an order shall contain all that is necessary for the lower
commander to know in order for him to execute independently his task it should contain no
more then they got a they got a chunk in here about communications but they're starting
to talk about like their technical communication so no factor here as contact is gained with
the enemy it is better that the division commander be where he can observe therefore he belongs
early on the field of battle and in the decisive area his location must be easily found easily
reached in attack the division command post should be located as far forward as possible
stand by for dichotomy yet so selected that the communication net to the side and rear
is effectively shielded from hostile fire to be desired our observation of the battlefield
either from the command post or nearby observation post and the possibility of establishing an
airplane landing field nearby so there's a dichotomy the Nazi dichotomy I've said that
twice now I'm a little scared I don't want to make that a thing knowledge of terrain
the usual attention is paid in German training to correct use of maps as a basis for utilizing
terrain and maneuver but the German doctrine is that maps should be so thoroughly studied
that they can be largely dispensed with during maneuvers and observer who commented on the
small use of maps during tank exercises was told that the officer who must constantly
refer to a map for orientation purposes considered poorly trained the map one study should be
carried in the mind rather than in the hand that's when you get in the military that's
sort of like from a leadership perspective understanding terrain is like blue belt level
like and you know the difference between someone that doesn't train in a blue belt is massive
yeah that's when you start to look at terrain and understand terrain that's like when you
get your blue belt you're like okay I understand I understand how I can utilize the terrain
that we're facing to our advantage yeah and what you're saying just the method to do it
like the skill of it yep versus no skill and even when you train when we train a seals
like when we first go out and do immediate action drills so we practice getting in gun
fights and breaking contact with the enemy or assaulting the enemy the first thing we
do is we do it on a big flat open field desert but it's a big flat piece of sand there's
no terrain it's just flat and you're just going through the mechanics and then as you
get better you start incorporating little pieces of terrain and then eventually you're using
like wild terrain features next section is called surprise during the training phase
the importance of the principle of surprise in combat is constantly featured according
to German doctrine surprise depends on the use of secrecy deception and speed secrecy
this depends on maintaining the strictest discipline among troops according to German
military authorities the use of deception to achieve surprise is comparatively unexploited
speed of execution of any maneuver is an essential is essential for achieving surprise this principle
is extended to artillery practice and observer notes that as much importance is now put on
the speed of opening fire as an accuracy and as the attainment of heavy volume of fire
so you're going to surprise people again this is a speed surprise and violence of action
that's what you learn day two at the SEAL team section seven training methods subsection
twenty physical conditioning and marching the importance of physical condition is fully
recognized in German training doctrine one of the services of the Hitler youth with its
emphasis on sports and the labor service is to furnish the army with recruits who are
fully conditioned and toughened the training period is thereby shortened and made more
effective a US observer saw an infantry battalion on maneuvers in January 1940 with the temperature
at 20 degrees the troops lay patiently in four inches of snow waiting their orders for
over an hour many men had no gloves this difficult period seemed to have no effect on their performance
later the hardening other observers of a German division in the field exercises before the
outbreak of war reported that fitness and endurance were made a fetish by both officers
and men the training purposes officers vote sorry for training purposes officers often
went 24 hours without food troops carried heavy loads of mortars machine guns and other equipment
as far as 1200 yards in fast rushes of 50 yards just before the exercises one engineer battalion
had marched 85 miles through the mountains in three days good physical condition has
been a basis for the notable March achievement of the German infantry despite all the mechanization
of modern armies German doctrine for saw the possibility that motorized personnel might
lose their equipment and have to move rapidly on foot in some cases German troops under
the prolonged strain of combat operations have covered 30 to 40 miles a day for several
days and German sources claim a march of 44 miles and 24 hours during the Polish campaign
reserve formations of older men or heart are held to nearly the same high standards despite
these achievements demand is made for even grading greater attention to marching an article
in a German military review from 1940 states peacetime marching practice though good was
not strenuous enough to prepare men for wartime marching conditions in peacetime marching
too much consideration is given to the comfort and convenience of the troops despicable tone
added by me yeah you have these American observers over there 1940 actually know my grandfather
was in the army and he was over in Nazi Germany in 1939 and he was he was talking to Nazi
I have I have his passport and he actually he was an engineer and he ended up befriending
one of the Nazi German or Nazi army engineers that worked on weapon systems and he he became
friends with him and got a bunch of blueprints of their weapon systems and stole them and
brought them back to America and turned them over they do espionage but I have I had his
passport I don't know where it is right now I think my dad might have it but his passport
has like all the Nazi squastika stamps in it and stuff and when he was over there and
you know my grandfather spoke Dutch and so he met someone that they could communicate
with huh like oh he spoke to when did you because obviously he was American sit where
do you know when your family moved that that side of the family came here on the boat in
like 1900 or something like that mmm yeah it's crazy thinking about those times like
those were actual real times you know like before you were born you know it feels like
in your brain it's almost like oh that's just it's almost like a movie you know before
you were born is more like just a movie and all this stuff but it was like an actual time
where people are actually living actually going through their day to day life yeah and you
actually and you were like you did not exist no it's a hard one to contemplate sometimes
I will I regret to inform you that the world has been here before you were here at the
world was not created the moment I was born all right cool just saying emphasis on field
exercises even the training at the German General Staff avoids abstract theory in tactics and
strategy the students thoroughly grounded in fundamental principles of tactics but he
is taught to apply them concrete by case study method in which a specific situation must be
stated and solved tactical training at the school is given almost entirely by means of
free maneuvers on the map and on the ground no fixed divisional organization is used in
this training and the combination of arms and division is continually varied the exercises
are so conducted that the officer student as commander and his staff oppose either the
instructor or another student group the student is given very little information of the enemy
positions and is required to make immediate decisions put into verbal orders movement
is controlled by factors of time space terrain firepower and mobility and by no other control
features coordination of effort is assured by staff action during movement rather than
by attempting elaborate plans in advance field work is done is field work is given central
emphasis in the program of training for troops small units carry out tactical problems day
in day out tactical exercises fill in half the time training this is just squared away
and you can have a you can do you can do such awesome rope and we've done a bunch of stuff
at Escalon front we got the FTX going obviously where this is what you're doing you're gonna
get you're gonna get like a little bit of information you got a timeline that you gotta
meet you got enemy moving you got friendly forces got all this stuff going on and that's
why we do it so you can learn how to lead we're doing something now we call the leadership
lab where it's not a combat scenario it's a business it's business scenarios so you're
going in and you've got a staff that you've got to work with and you've got things that
are happening at your company who plays the staff other people in the company or role
players role players role players play the staff it's it's pretty awesome like oh hey
we've got hey hey listen boss or listen whatever plant plant manager hey plant manager you
got a complaint one of your one of your employees is flying off the handle right now who says
that they're getting treated unfairly they're coming to your office right now they'll be
here in three minutes oh by the way as soon as that's over you there's a there's a reporter
here you got to do a small press conference as a group of reporters here they want to know
about this product that you made that's made a bunch of kids sick in the local neighborhood
so you get ready for that press conference and then you go to the press conference guess
what you guess what happens you could ask a bunch of questions by role players do you
are you saying that your profit is more important than the safety of the children you know like
all that kind of stuff so good yeah that makes sense yeah echelonfront.com leadership lab
check it out you want to put your key executives through some awesome training where they learn
these these types of leadership skills that's it fast forward a little bit the concept of
wartime training stated was stated in a German training directive in 1941 in spite of greater
difficulties than in time of peace training must be conducted as thoroughly and methodically
as possible it is only by inspiring a desire for intellectual cooperation and by constantly
keeping it alive among the lower ranks that the correct tactical conceptions can be successfully
inculcated in the ranks down to the most humble non-commissioned officer.
Realism the realism of training no element of training doctrine is given more stress
than the demand for a maximum effect of realism claus witz the guide of so much modern military
theory stated the principle very exactly at a period when the methods and techniques of
warfare put less strain than they do now on the troops entering battle for the first time
that's an interesting statement like hey back in the day is nothing compared to what you're
going into combat in 1942 and there's machine guns and you know miss or schmitz overhead
strafing your area and people are just getting blown up like this is a totally different
ballgame but this is a good way of putting it from claus witz no general can supply his
army with war experience and the substitute of peacetime drills is a weak one when compared
with the actual experience in war it is much more important that peacetime drills be so
arranged that a part of the causes for friction occur and that the judgment the wisdom the
prudence and the decision of the individual leaders are tested that is believed by those
who do not know from this experience so you got to go if you haven't been a war you got
to go even harder than you think it is of utmost importance that the soldier of high
or low grade no matter what position he may occupy should experience those difficulties
which perplex and surprise him in actual war if they have happened to him but once before
he's already somewhat familiar with them this even applies to physical strains they must
be practiced not so much that nature but that the brain becomes accustomed this is so absolutely
critical and you know I was so lucky to have been where I was in and be able to run training
in the SEAL teams because we just were able to execute on this we are just absolutely
able to execute on this 100% and give super hard training stressful training decisions
that need to be made under time under stress under pressure with mayhem going on communication
breaking down like we're able to do this over and over again if you're a platoon commander
you're going to do this 12 times in 12 nights or in three nights or four nights you're going
to be put in these stressful situations you would start to get used to it and your troops
get used to it this is why law enforcement training needs to step it up yeah needs to
step it up about a thousand percent so that people get used to these scenarios from training
the Germans have gone to great trouble and expense to carry out this principle in training
for one thing troops in training exercises are provided with large amounts of practice
ammunition of all sorts including grenades usually with reduced charges but nevertheless
requiring careful handling and involving some risk machine gun fire ball ammunition over
the heads of attacking troops with very small safety margin and trench mortars support the
infantry within 50 yards of of its objective a German officer of engineers told an observer
that we have considerable losses in wartime training but this is unavoidable in familiarizing
the men in handling of explosives and becoming an expert the men know that losses in training
would mean fewer losses in battle in field exercise the enemy is always represented by
actual soldiers who advance in retreat delay flyer fire blanks and otherwise conduct themselves
at the enemy should barbed wire shell holes trenches artillery emplacements and all the
other features of actual combat are introduced as far as possible in every exercise remember
when you guys for training got the laser tag system whatever it's called when you shot
it was it what did the gunfire was it like it was a blank oh so it was so it sounded
real well blanks don't sound as real as real guns but yes it went bang yeah and then it
shot the laser at the same time what's the difference between the sound I don't think
I've ever heard a blank there's a choir it's it's it's it's considerably choir although
the machine gun blanks are pretty freaking loud yeah but like a an m4 or m16 type blank
is pre-week bro like pride on the air pro oh for I mean it's loud but it's not crazy
yeah yeah you ever watch a snatch movie yeah don't remember too much about it I read you
anyway they had these replica they're gonna do some robbery oh yeah this is the 50 cal
that says replica on it right the desert eagle 50 cal that says no no no isn't that in that
movie though yes but they're close that's not what happened was actually yes so it was
like the that scene or the part of that scene anyway so they these guys these three thugs
go and they get these guns that are replica guns he's like I even got extra loud blanks
so that actually now kind of makes a little bit more sense it's like okay there's extra
loud blanks well yeah if the if regular blanks are more quiet yeah then that makes sense but
then even though they're making jokes they're like why in case we got a deaf in them to
death or whatever yeah you said whatever no so the desert eagle wasn't the replica the
desert eagle was real oh they had the replicas so they came in they did they did whatever
they did then they came one of them say replica on it though all their guns all the thugs guns
so they were pointing it at Vinnie blue or Vinnie's is really bullet tooth Tony who's
this big played by Vinnie I forget his last name and he's just cruising they're having
a beer and they're like you know they try to intimidate them or whatever and then Vinnie
goes into this or bullet tooth goes into this kind of cool speech and then at the end of
speech it says on the fact that you have a replica written down the side of your guns
and it kind of zooms you know got rich he has this good cinematic style shows the replica
of words and then it goes on the fact that I have desert eagle and he pulls it out written
on mine and then he goes back into his speech or whatever it was just a super good scene
but the desert eagle is real they had replicas okay you know this guy's talking about barbed
wire shell holes trenches artillery and placements like all the stuff to make it real we had Hollywood
set designers come down and square away our training sites and it was freaking awesome
it was awesome and then like we do what the moose would do which is like set tires on
fire in the middle of the streets you come down there your night vision is getting all
messed up from that there's graffiti on the walls there's speakers that are playing the
call to prayer it would be it would be realistic man yeah and that's so good too because when
you first started saying that I was like oh wait you got Hollywood set I mean that's kind
of going is it that deep bro like did you and then but then I thought about it so when
I first started playing football I was 11 years old Pop Warner football and you know
in a regular football practice especially back then might be different now but back then
is you know you warm up you do some exercises pushups and stuff you do like these kind of
they're called grass drills but they're like essentially coordination drills you know and
then you do some technique stuff and then you do a scrimmage pretty much every day with
your pads on too so it's essentially it's essentially full contact scrimmages right
so but the scrimmage would have and this is pretty this is pretty standard where you have
like kind of the starting team in the secondary team and then you have everyone else who's
not on the first or second string plays the defense right but they show the defense that
the team that we're going to play that week what defense they got it so and then if the
player and here's what our coaches would do if there was a star player somewhere like
maybe the defensive end or something like that was a star player the safety or the linebacker
was this was kind of the star player especially when you're young it kind of it stands out
more they would get like one of our really good players to play that guy and if he did
something unique they would make that guy do that unique thing so they try to try to
make it realistic like and replicate it right so I remember them I remember thinking like
alright I mean you know we run plays but I didn't realize how much of a difference it
is from running plays against a generic defense versus running plays against a very specific
defense so and you know I'm 11 years old so it's not dawning on me right so I'm like
whatever though what we'll practice or whatever and from week to week you'd be different you
could feel the difference with who we're playing and they'd all be the same guys guys on our
team right in practice but rewind back to that first game and the first time you play
and you see the exact same thing as we were practicing it's different jerseys which is
weird but even that little detail it's kind of like whoa that kind of stood out you could
see the little differences like oh I've been used to this practice so much you know over
these weeks or whatever the littlest difference stands out so the more accurate you can make
it the better so you don't get distracted by all these little differences right so then
I thought back to your you know scenario where you're hiring set designers and you're like
talking about burning tires and doing all this little stuff that I'm like I'm curious
if there's a burning tire or not you know like probably you're here to do the mission
the burning tires not gonna distract you the thing is it wouldn't be surprising to me given
what I already know everything would be distraction if you haven't seen it before the burning
tire it's kind of like that's kind of a big distraction actually when you think about
it or it could be yeah yeah how's it affecting your night vision what are you gonna do yeah
it's a little thing but it makes a big difference it's so true so true even like okay so like
football there I remember so this guy's name is Kelly is kind of like you know kids are
bigger yep so they'd replicate him in practice they'd put my brother or something somebody
there right someone who's just like a like a big a good athlete for practice but this
guy Kelly he wasn't just a good athlete he was kind of a mean person so it was like you
could tell the difference between an athlete and being a mean person the difference between
that you know and it was like a thing is like man they should have told my brother whoever
else was just to be mean or something like that that would help that little detail would
help they're a little surprised yeah yeah yeah well I always tell people like I'm doing
my first jiu-jitsu tournament what should I be ready for and I'm like yeah be ready for
your opponent to go crazier than anything you've seen in your jiu-jitsu academy yeah that's
what's gonna happen yeah might not be the first match might be the same but like it's almost
guaranteed and probably is gonna be your first match person gonna get nuts yeah you ready
for that yeah and actually there's ways to get ready for that even though it does get
a little bit more just like yeah ball extra like anything it gets dangerous after a while
if you start practicing that hard with it you know yeah you can't but to do like an in-house
tournament or like or a replicated tournament like they did it a few times where it's like
oh everyone like make a big circle we're gonna do a thing points matter yeah yeah yeah start
tracking points that's the thing you know and people watching and yelling and cheering
and they're being a ref counting your points it's kind of like when things matter a little
bit more it's like right even they saw just psychological but it helps isn't everything
the handbook on squad combat says one should use real troops as much as possible represent
the enemy the soldiers will much less will be much less likely to make mistakes in wartime
if they see during the training instead of a dummy a real and active enemy this is you
know you talked about using that laser tag system and when we started using simulation
and paintball it was just totally different I mean imagine that that paper target doesn't
shoot back it doesn't move that's the main concerns of the enemy they're gonna shoot
back if they're gonna move a paper target doesn't shoot back it doesn't move so that
training is even though live fire training you have to do it and you need to do it to
a point where it's second nature live fire against targets but the real stressors should
come when you start doing force on force training yeah yeah that's a just the person or the
enemy whatever shooting back just that not moving thing like what if there was stationary
targets that actually shot back just that alone huge deal yeah on the flip side just
them moving around versus number huge deal totally and then I got now you're missing
in live fire training and this obviously my little theory in the scenario but those two
put together yeah isn't that kind of night and day it's a whole different training scenario
and we adjusted our tactics when we figured that out because our tactics had evolved from
Vietnam they had evolved to a point where they weren't realistic anymore because we
spent all these we spent 20 years shooting at paper targets that weren't moving and so
we developed tactics to do it very quickly but it was against inanimate objects the
minute we started getting paintball and simulation into the game you start realizing oh that's
not gonna work we can't all stand in a big group like this we need to take this into
consideration we need to take that into consideration all so things we got a lot better we started
doing force on force training it's the same thing to be said for jiu-jitsu and UFC right
when you just when I used to walk up to you and throw like a whatever punch and you would
fall down like I threw a simulated punch and you simulated falling down and I simulated
and broke your you know your heart with a with a two finger punch or whatever you know
what I mean it's called the dimma yeah with the dimma then it's like it seemed to work
good like I was pretty awesome but then the minute I got into a fight with some drunk
wrestler I got a beat down I'm like this doesn't work and what jiu-jitsu is jiu-jitsu is like
oh you're training to you're training as hard as you can to put the person in a submission
hold that then they don't die because they tap well it's the same thing I shoot you with
paintball in the neck or the thighs which is where I'm aiming because they are still
ours so when I shoot you there you don't die but you learn a lesson so how different is
it you ever played regular paintball yes regular okay so semenition that's the people
they guys have what's the difference is there any difference with semenition semenition
you shoot from your real weapon yeah and it and it goes bang it goes it goes bang not loud
you know it's not it's just a little it's a little tiny bang uh you have to change your
magazine it's not like we have 400 paintballs and a freaking hopper on top of your gun you just
lay it away straight you have to change magazine you're they kind of semenition does jam a little
bit oh which is a bummer what's the um what would you call it the propellant or what
would it like how does it it's an explosion yeah it's like a little explosion and so and it comes
out I would I don't know if it comes out like faster it seems to I think it's a little bit
faster I think it's hits a little bit harder then it's a smaller project also hurts a little bit
more okay but it but it is it has paint in it and you get you know you get a little paint on you
and it's very effective it's the thing the reason that we also use the laser tag system
is because the paintball and the semenition is only good for you know 30 40 yards so it's good in
the house it's good in the hallway it's good in a cqc environment but out in the field it's no good
it doesn't work good you can use a little bit like even in a mountain environment you need to use
regular paintball guns eventually so that you can get some distance you can put down cover fire
like across the street but even that's not very that's not very accurate you but then but then the
lasers they're good at like three four five hundred yards well maybe 300 yards but but that's
that's legit but you can get some legit training and do the laser and this is just my predicting
or estimating kind of imagining so the one you're with the lasers don't you lose an element of
stress a little bit because there's nothing actually coming in hitting you yep and what what was funny
was so we use those in the desert and if you got shot you're gonna get put down and if you got put
down someone's gonna have to carry you out and if you're getting carried out you're gonna get dropped
you're gonna get food like it sucks for everyone and so when it would actually when you would watch
the guys going through like a urban scenario getting shot with paintball they would just charge
through it like they didn't care like in the structures if they're gonna put you down they put
you down but when on the laser tag system it had a near miss little you had a speaker on your
shoulder so when you would get shot at it would go you know make a little noise and you knew that
you were getting shot at oh that's cool and when you would watch guys as those near misses started
coming they would dive for cover like they were getting shot at for real i'm not kidding they were
dying like they were getting shot up for we don't because they if they got shot everything was going
to go to shit they were gonna get bogged down other people were gonna shot they were gonna have to
get carried out which is a total gut check and and it would happen a lot but you'd see those guys
it was very effective training yeah but sometimes you know when you're just doing a laser tag with
no punishment whatsoever you can definitely get a little bit cocky with paintball you don't really
get too cocky because it hurts and you don't want to get you know you'll you'll move from cover to
cover yeah because you don't want to get lit up yeah yeah funny there's all those little details
that you don't really think about that play such a big role in the whole scenario oh yeah the guys
diving for cover in we using the laser system was that's when you knew like oh this is really
effective so and then you could also put down suppressive fire because if you were you know
over in a building I could just shoot at the building and as soon as you started maneuvering
out so you could shoot back you'd like get near misses and you'd hide oh yeah so that means I could
you know I could put down cover fire while my buddy moved yeah and it was totally effective
that speaker kind of makes a big difference that you know I didn't really think about it where
especially if you have that association like oh if I get put down this major consequences
because without the speak because I'm not thinking speaker does all that which obviously
is more advanced than I thought so the if you're just like oh you only get the indicator that you
got shot right which is kind of like the regular laser tag yeah that I played when I was young
you don't they don't know near misses nothing like that so you think oh yeah cover fire won't work
that good because yeah what basically the whole concept of cover fire is you're being scared of
those bullets even though they don't hit you but then yeah if you got that speaker buzzing in
yeah oh but then but laser doesn't like hit the building doesn't because bullet hitting the building
is like kind of a big thing right that will get your head down yeah so cover fire in a way
potentially is way more effective in real fire for all because it's everything yes and that was
one thing that was even with even with the laser tag you'd still see guys do like stuff where you're
like hey would you have really done that because you got shot 19 times or whatever you know and so
it was a little hard to simulate the fear of death yeah but I'll tell you what getting getting buddy
carried or having to buddy carry someone out for six kilometers in the desert on night vision
it sucked and guys hated it and so they would do everything they could to stay alive and accomplish
the mission yeah that feels like a solid little like proxy yeah for it it was a solid little
proxy I mean obviously you can't shoot the guys and kill them right but man it's you don't want to
hump someone out in the desert it's freaking terrible especially someone like you yeah and in
and sometimes guys would you know a task unit would have 12 down man it would just be awful
like if they did if they didn't if the leadership wasn't making good decisions and they weren't
covered in moving they have things weren't you know simple and clear and they didn't prioritize
you would get 12 13 14 and sometimes you know we'd kill so many of them they'd be like all right
you guys are done just walk back you you failed oh that's when you're getting reloaded and now
you got a whole nother stress right because they don't want to get they don't want to fail of course
so be a bummer but it was really good it was it was great to be able to be a part of that training
yeah that's that's cool how it evolved into like that that close to realistic yeah those paintballs
like especially if that's simulant the mission hurt more than like paintball kind of hurts
hmm like it's a mission hurts too yeah but i'd say it's probably about the same
yeah probably about the same but i got whacked like couple times like in the side
and i wasn't wearing like padding or nothing only just the face one yeah and yeah i get and
leaves like a straight up wound like on your thing like a little well whatever yeah that's
something it's not nothing i tell you that
yeah thoroughness realism in german training methods is one aspect of their general demand
for thoroughness german officers in particular and the enlisted men as well are taught to regard
themselves as men engaged in a highly skilled and highly honorable profession and to take pride in
acquiring the details of military techniques to encourage this point of view soldiers are put as
little as possible on fatigue work and non-military labors which are performed by civilians and the
last thing we'll talk about from this document is marksmanship journey german training has tended
to put emphasis on volume of fire rather than accuracy an observer believes that their ability
to concentrate fire at vital point is superior to our own but that their standards of markmanship
are inferior however a german article in late 1941 makes the point that volume of mechanical fire
will not replace accurate individual shooting and that sharp shooters can perform invaluable
tactical missions so they they did concentrate on volume of fire and they concentrate on marksmanship
the basic skills of shooting and there you have it and and as you can see many of those principles
are the same principles that are taught in the u.s military and really the same principles that
are taught by any sort of leadership education right and and that's why it's very strange to
read this document and recognize that these principles are being utilized by the most evil
or at least one of the top evil empires to have ever existed and yet they're talking about taking
care of their people and and making sure everyone understands the why and you can see as i mentioned
earlier that that while these principles were implemented down the chain of command clearly at
the top these principles didn't exist at all the tyrannical leader of hitler massive ego driven by
his own insecurities driven by paranoia lack of trust like all these things that these book this
book talks about the hitler didn't have and that's why you end up in this disaster and this horrific
the the horrific atrocities that that the nazis created in the horrific atrocities of the war
which which you know what you you know you were talking about earlier i kind of made funny you
about like oh the world didn't exist before i was here right it's it's kind of inconceivable in some
ways to understand the broad absolute horror of world war two and the holocaust and the the deaths
the the woundings the loss of life the destroyed communities it's it's it's kind of hard to really
truly understand that those things occurred at all it can be very bit difficult to understand that
they seem inconceivable i guess if you truly look at it season it seems inconceivable if you think
about the millions of people you know millions of people millions of people dying it's hard to
it's hard to understand a million dollars it's hard to understand you know a million a million
people going to a you know at a at a big giant arena there's only a hundred thousand people there
picture that times 10
and then that's there you have a million and each one of those people is an individual with a family
and dreams and a life and and and thoughts and when you start talking about the scale of death
and destruction in world war two it's just it's hard to conceive what that really means but
it did happen and we have to study history and have to study our enemies and what their
fault processes were to make sure that history does not repeat itself
with that we appreciate y'all listen to the podcast if you want to support the podcast
and support yourself at the same time might as well support some good causes out there right
let's support some good it's true let's make the world a better place let's start with ourselves
yes make yourself better physically better mentally better spiritually better let's do all those
things yep it's true take care of yourself on every front that's what we need to do and then you
can take care of other people then you can help other people so if you want to help yourself from a
fuel and i'm not talking about gasoline for your car or maybe diesel for your truck i'm talking about
for you you need fuel similar concept similar concept you want to get good fuel you kind of
want to get the best fuel yes you might want to get for yourself some jockel fuel it's true
yeah it's very true you know as i keep reminding you off air that i am on the path kind of strict
oh yeah yeah i'm kind of legitimately strict ever since um covid started i put on some pounds
some good some bad and uh you know varying levels of success in going back to you know
to where i was before that also i just got back from the motherland why you know and you know that
can go sometimes but nonetheless point is i'm on the path so routine back in full swing
100 percent bro covid was like three years ago yes sir yeah yeah you know like i said
let's make a regular don't go off the path for three years everybody i would say this so i was
two years it's coming up on three years maybe two years two years two and a half i don't know
something like that but i was like i'm off the path because of covid well you know two and a half
years ago well jiu-jitsu stops for a long time the routine jiu-jitsu okay we got little pockets
here and there and get in this is true but the routine stops you know i still can work out at
the house or whatever but cardio goes way down sometimes like off the grid let's face it so i'm
just lifting some boom i'm putting myself on full report maybe someone else out there can relate to
the realities of situations like this nonetheless boom yeah sure i got back on the path but i never
really got back to where it was and after a while you know we just got tired of that one you know
so we just went more strict right i'm saying but there are certain elements in there that have
always been on the path especially with the fuel with the jockel fuel part of it part of the point
as well so thank god you had jockel fuel because apparently you need you were just you were just
walking around never mind off the path you're off the reservation no i know and the way i'm
putting is more like i just freaking just let myself go i didn't let myself go but i put on like a good
10 15 pounds which isn't yeah i know it's not like night night and day kind of a scenario but
and that's probably why i didn't get back right away because it wasn't like that big of a thing
but it was still a nagging thing i feel like you see i'm saying you're drinking moch i'm drinking
moch yes and actually i just got on this um protocol which i always knew about but you know
sometimes it takes a little bit for to implement where if you if with your diet if you just control
for like the protein get enough protein whatever your workout program kind of requires or whatever
and then you fill in the rest of the macros accordingly depends on where you want to go
what your goal is or whatever that's like a really good way to stay on it see i'm saying like if
because if you don't control for protein and you don't get enough protein you don't build your
muscle the way you want to do it you risk over training you do all the stuff whatever
nonetheless it's a better it's a good way to do it yeah so you gotta get that protein yeah 100
percent how much are you getting oh hot long gram per no like 0.6 0.6 grams per yeah
but that's like you need to up it man yeah you up those numbers from what i understand i mean i wonder
you're losing weight you're starving to death over there right you're losing muscle mass no
no it depends on where what you read and where you read it um that it's going to go anywhere from
like 0.5 all up to like one oh is per pound per hour per pound or per kilogram no per pound
for real yeah okay it depends so um i don't know hey look that's that's your journey to look into
that kind of stuff and figure out what's right for you brought okay so let's say i weigh 220
and i'm taking what you want me to freaking eat 220 grams of protein in a day that's what you're
saying i don't know that's 10 mocs i love moc i like moca a lot but i could you know 10 10 yeah
even if you break it up three milkshakes per meal i don't know i don't know okay we don't
recommend that i'm not saying yes i'm not saying no i'm saying i don't know that's a little much
currently i'm not at 10 no i'm at one sometimes two actually but mine are doubles yes or mine
yeah i only have doubles okay yeah there you go boom nonetheless we're on the program 100
percent check um also good news with the energy drinks if you didn't know already yeah real good
news all the old good news is still there healthy for your energy drink no sugar sugar is more
evil than you think by the way yeah 100 i think it's evil so you're not catching me on that one
i know as evil as if you were to you know how like i'm sure there was some point in your life where
you like looked into sugar a little bit deeper than maybe you do daily and then realize oh shoot
this is kind of there's some issues with sugar sugar is like evil you could start looking back
into it and probably find some more stuff yeah that's how so you're saying it is even more evil
than even i thought and i thought it was pretty damn evil that is my contention yes and good news
like i said old good news but good news and no sugar in this one it's all healthy stuff
so boom that's still the case but the additional good news we got a reformulated taste for all
of them oh yeah all of them all the all the discipline go taste good as a hell now like it
will we're gonna win on taste yeah we're gonna win on taste taste better than the other let's go
what do we call them energy drinks energy tastes better than the other ones straight up better
yeah try that still no sugar yeah still no still no chemicals in there just good for you and now
it tastes good too it's true the other flavors you might have one or two flavors that you like
but the other ones you kind of now you'll like them all yeah you'll and you'll love one or two of
them that's the difference that's what we just did yeah and there's a few before that you hated
you won't even hate any of them yeah now you're gonna you're gonna like them all you're gonna
love two or three of them and you're gonna be good to go you're gonna find your little thing yeah
man it's true it's all true a jockofuel.com yeah uh don't forget don't forget a lot of but we don't
we haven't actually talked about it or whatever the joint stuff that's a big deal because you can be
on any program but yeah if your joints your knees start giving out shoulders all this kind of stuff
right you're kind of off the program a little bit so voluntarily off the program so yeah keep that
in mind you want overall health you want to be able to keep going prioritize it yeah endurance
endurance durable be durable that helps big time um yeah some vitamins in the vitamin D
cold or immunity just by just checking out jockofuel.com.com go to Wawa get some drinks
we got a we got a ready to drink coming moque coming have you seen that yeah have you tasted
yet no hell of good yeah perfect perfect yeah it's so good do they add like um you know how for
example i'll put like half a banana in there or something like that do they add anything else in
there no just straight up moque formulated perfect ratios you could throw a banana in there
scientifically proven perfect ratios okay all right it's good uh go to Wawa get the drinks go to
vitamin shop get this stuff go to if you're in taxes go to HEB go to HEB rolling hot and get
yourself some moque that's what i'm saying uh also get some origin hunt origin usa.com you can get
a bunch of you can get jeans boots you know you can get but you can get stuff that's made in america
not stuff that's literally made in a tyrannical country like the one we just talked about yeah
yeah it's a little bit different but the principles are kind of there let's not support that let's
support america where people are free how about that that's a good idea origin usa.com get yourself
some boots jeans some jiu-jitsu gear gear yeah it's true also you want to represent why you're on
this path like i think a lot of us do pretty much every day chocolatestore.com shirts hats hoodies on
there as well i know summertime i get it but at some point it's going to be fall then winter i've
got some hoodies on there um discipline equals freedom that's what you're representing the
jockel store stuff uh short locker by the way what i don't know that i've that you've ever told me
your assessment of the shirt locker in any thorough way let's see i like it there's my assessment
if you don't know what that is subscription situation get a new shirt every month creative
they're different different designs pretty much every single one has been a success varying levels
of you know there are sporadic um outliers that might you know they might be too hard there's a
couple objections over a couple of objections they the the conceptual element behind them might have
went over some people's heads or maybe hit them too hard or hit too hard in the face yeah a little
bit that's what it seemed like short locker.com is that a thing no it's just jacquo store.com
i'm just making up my old dot coms jacquo store.com you click is a big thing click
shirt locker boom check it out you can see some previews too that's the thing look i'm not going
to give it all away you know as far as what designs or what or whatever but you can see
some previews some hints of like what the next one is what some past ones were also if you're a
member you can buy any of the past ones by the way that's pretty legit yeah so you know you thought
you missed out on one the way you can grab back but you can bring it right back you want your neighbor
because this is this happens a lot where you're going to be wearing one and someone'd be like bro
where'd you get that shirt like the one that says good right you know we have some good shirts on
the store cool we got a better one there's a different one slightly and it's like it's cool it
looks really good and i got a literal phone call saying where who got that shirt where can we get
that shirt my wife wants it you sign up you can get your wife on your neighbor one whatever you
like same thing check uh that's jacquo store.com subscribe to the podcast check out the jacquo
underground we just recorded a couple episodes of that talking interesting information talk about
keeping our own little platform we have our own little platform we don't own this platform that
you're listening to unless you're in jacquo underground right now but we don't own itunes
we don't own Spotify we don't own YouTube we get kicked off any of those i don't know
we talked about the nazis today will that get us kicked off oh yeah i mean who knows yeah there's
like terms that get you like flagged kind of flagged yeah huh yeah they're for real art yeah in
fact it's so apparently flagged before oh yeah we've been flagged a few times and that's kind of
what prompted this jacquo underground.com because we don't know when we're gonna get kicked off for
saying something yeah so if you want to support that eight dollars and 18 cents a month we appreciate
it check out the youtube channel check out psychological warfare check out flipsidecanvas.com
dakota meyer making awesome stuff to hang on your wall i written a bunch of books check them out
uh you know what they are echelon front talked about that a little bit today leadership lab
ftx we got the muster coming up so i think that's the next one is in atlanta hotlanta
october 12th to the 14th we sold out all these things so if you want to come get there early
register go to extremownership.com for our or that's echelonfront.com if you want to do online
training you want to go through some courses you want to understand this stuff at a deeper level
go to extremownership.com and take some courses some online courses i'll be sitting there telling
you what's up you can come and ask me questions extremownership.com and if you want to do your
duty from a charity perspective check out marquise mom momily she's got a great charity organization
and if you want to donate to her organization or you want to get involved go to americasmightywarriors.org
and you've also got heroesandhorses.org mica he's up there in the wilderness they're wrapping up
their course right now 41 days out in the bush reconnecting with your soul that's for veterans
check it out heroesandhorses.org and if you want to well if you want to see us on twitter or the
gram or the facebook echo and iron there but look just be careful fair warning the algorithms there
the brainwashing out we said people getting brainwashed by the nazis you're getting brainwashed
too when you're staring at that little screen don't let it happen watch out for the algorithm
and finally salute to the greatest generation the world war two veterans that fought against the
nazi power the tyranny the oppression the greatest generation that saved freedom in our world so
a salute to them and also thanks to the soldiers sailors airmen and marines that are out there
right now as we speak holding the line thank you to all of you and the same goes to our police and
law enforcement firefighters paramedics emt dispatchers correctional officers border patrol
secret service and all the first responders that keep us safe every day thank you for holding the
line here at home and everyone else out there remember this idea remember to begin your day
with a mission begin the day with a mission and if you approach every day and you approach every
task as if it was a battle eventually you can approach battles like they're a task
that's what we've got for today every day is a battle go get in the fight and until next time
this is echo and jocco out